Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Core Rules, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
the Warhammer Age of Sigmar core rules. It is presented
as a series of questions and answers; the questions are
based on ones that have been asked by players, and
the answers are provided by the rules writing team
explain and how the rules are intended to be used. The
commentaries help provide a default setting for your
games, but players should always feel free to discuss the
rules before a game, and change things as they see fit
if they both want to do so (changes like this are usually
referred to as ‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
THE MOST IMPORTANT RULE
Q: How should I resolve any questions that arise during a game
if I can’t find the answer in the rules or here?
A: In a game as detailed, wide-ranging and deep as
Warhammer Age of Sigmar, there may be times when you
are not sure exactly how to resolve a situation that has
come up during play. When this happens, the quickest
and best solution is almost always to have a quick chat
with your opponent, and apply the solution that makes
the most sense to you both (or seems the most fun!).
If no single solution presents itself, both of you should
roll a dice, and whoever rolls higher gets to choose what
happens. Then you can get on with the fighting!
BATTLEPLANS
Q: If I use a model for an objective marker, does it count as a
terrain piece? Can it block visibility or affect the movement of
a unit?
A: No to all questions. An objective marker is simply
an object you use to mark the location of an objective
on the battlefield. If you want to move a model to the
location occupied by an objective marker, it is perfectly
acceptable to move the marker to one side as long
as you measure distances to the objective using its
original location.
Q: Can I use an endless spell model to gain control of
an objective?
A: No, with the exception of endless spell models that
are combined with a model from your own army, such as
a Balewind Vortex.
ARMIES
Q: Is it okay to use ‘proxy’ models to stand in for models
that I do not have but want to use in a game? For example,
using a Slaughterpriest model to represent a Bloodsecrator, or
using Stormcast Eternals models painted in the colours of the
Hammers of Sigmar to represent Stormcast Eternals from a
different warrior chamber?
A: The use of proxy models is generally frowned upon,
because doing so can confuse the other players (and
sometimes even yourself), and because it spoils the
spectacle and aesthetic of the game. Because of this,
you can only use proxy models if you’ve gained your
opponent’s permission to do so before the game begins.
Q: Can you take more than one of a unique named character
(along the lines of Nagash or Archaon) in your army?
A: You can unless you are playing a game that uses the
Pitched Battle rules (where only one of each unique
model can be taken in an army). That said, many, many
players agree to only use one of each named character
in open and narrative play too, as doing otherwise
makes the game feel rather unrealistic and considerably
less immersive.
Q: When I choose my army, can I keep any information about it
secret from my opponent?
A: No, unless specifically noted otherwise.
WARSCROLLS
Q: If I have two different warscrolls for the same unit,
can I choose which to use, or must I use the most recently
published version? Do I have to use any errata that applies to
the warscroll?
A: You must use the most recently published warscroll
and errata that you or your opponent have available.
Warscrolls with a date of publication are always
considered to have been published more recently
than a warscroll that doesn’t have one. If you have
two warscrolls for a unit and neither has a date of
publication, you can choose which warscroll to use.
CORE RULES
Designers’ Commentary, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Core Rules, Designers’ Commentary 2
Q: Some units can carry different weapon options, like spears
or swords – can I build my unit (and my models) with different
weapons? For example, 8 spears and 12 swords?
A: It depends on the description; if the description
says that the unit can be armed with different weapon
options, you can only use one of the weapon options. If
the description instead states that models from the unit can
be armed with different weapon options, you can choose
a mix of weapon options.
Q: Can the leader of the unit take special weapons, like
a Grandhammer?
A: Yes.
Q: If a warscroll or set of allegiance abilities has a rule that
contradicts the core rules, can I use it? For example, Lord
Kroak has a rule that allows him to attempt to cast Celestial
Deliverance up to three times in the hero phase, but this
contradicts the core rule that you can only attempt to cast a spell
once per turn.
A: Warscrolls and allegiance abilities take precedence
over the core rules that appear before the core rules
for battleplans, warscrolls and allegiance abilities. This
allows you to do things that would not normally be
allowed. In the case of Lord Kroak, his rule means he
can attempt to cast Celestial Deliverance up to three
times in the same turn.
Q: Some warscrolls have a weapon profile that says ‘see below’,
but does not include an Attacks characteristic. When I use such
a weapon, how many attacks does it make?
A: These types of weapon can make one attack, as
described in the rules that appear below the weapon’s
characteristics. Note that rules that modify that
weapon’s Attacks characteristic will have no effect on the
number of attacks it can make.
Q: Many older battletomes have a page of rules for warscrolls,
warscroll battalions and allegiance abilities. Are these rules
replaced by the new core rules for warscrolls, warscroll battalions
and allegiance abilities?
A: Yes.
Q: Some abilities and spells require you to take a test against
another unit’s Bravery characteristic. When this is the case,
do you use the Bravery characteristic after any modifiers have
been applied, instead of the unmodified characteristic on the
unit’s warscroll?
A: Yes.
UNITS AND MODELS
Q: Does a Hero or a Monster – as a single model – count as
a unit?
A: Yes.
Q: Is there any kind of facing in Warhammer Age of Sigmar?
Can models only shoot or move in a direction that they
are facing?
A: No to both questions.
Q: Some abilities refer to units that have been ‘destroyed’. What
does this mean exactly?
A: A unit is considered to be destroyed when the last
model from the unit is slain or flees. When measuring
the range to a destroyed unit, measure to the position
occupied by the last model in the unit to be slain or flee.
Q: When I set up a model or move a model, can I set it up so
that it is on top of another model or its base overlaps the base of
another model?
A: No. Note that models can be set up or move on top of
or overlapping a terrain feature, as long as the terrain
feature is not one that has the Garrison rule.
Q: If a unit leaves the battlefield for whatever reason and comes
back, do they lose any bonuses they had from abilities or spells?
Also, if they had a ‘once per game’ ability, does it reset?
A: If a unit leaves the battlefield and then returns to
the battlefield, no to both questions. If the models have
been slain and are being used as part of a unit that has
been added to the army, then yes to both questions.
Q: Some abilities allow me to move my opponent’s models. How
do I go about doing this?
A: You should always ask an opponent’s permission
before touching or moving any of their models. If they
are not happy for you to do so, just tell them where you
want the model to move, and they can then make the
move for you.
DICE ROLLS
Q: Some abilities allow me to re-roll a successful (or
unsuccessful) roll. When this is the case, is the success or failure
based on the roll before or after any modifiers are applied?
A: Re-rolls happen before any modifiers are applied,
so the success or failure will always be based on the
unmodified roll. Note that, when an ability says you can
re-roll a failed roll, you may want to consider the effect
that modifiers may have before deciding to re-roll the
dice. For example, if a roll succeeds on a 4+ and you
have a +1 modifier, you probably don’t want to re-roll
‘failed’ rolls of 3, because they will become successful
after the modifier is applied!
Q: Some abilities say ‘you can’ re-roll a dice roll. Which
player decides?
A: Any ability that says ‘you can’ is referring to the player
that has the unit from the warscroll in their army.
Q: Some abilities refer to rolling a ‘double’. What is a double?
A: A double is a 2D6 roll where the two dice used to
make the roll each have the same value before any
modifiers are applied.
Q: Some abilities allow you to either pick, change or replace a
dice roll with the roll of your choice. Does this happen before or
after any re-rolls or modifiers?
A: Unless noted otherwise in the ability, it happens
before any re-rolls or modifiers are applied.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Core Rules, Designers’ Commentary 3
Q: Some units – Lord Kroak, Fateweaver and the Coven
Throne to name a few – have abilities to ‘re-roll a single dice’ or
similar. Can it be used to re-roll a single dice in a 2D6 roll? In
addition, are such re-rolls limited to just your own dice rolls, or
can you make your opponent re-roll one of theirs?
A: Yes, you can re-roll one of the dice in a 2D6 roll (or
a 3D6 roll, etc.) with such an ability. If the ability in
question says ‘a dice’ rather than ‘any of your dice’, then
it can be used to force a re-roll of an opponent’s dice (in
which case the opponent could not use a re-roll of their
own to re-roll it again).
Q: An unmodified roll of 1 for a hit, wound or save roll is
always a failure. If there is another ability that triggers when
that roll is 6 or more, will it still trigger if the modifiers to the
failed roll of 1 are enough to take it to 6 or more?
A: No. The attack sequence ends when a hit, wound or
save roll fails.
Q: Sometimes a dice roll will trigger an effect. For example,
a weapon might have a rule that says a hit roll of 6 causes
two hits on the target instead of 1. What happens if another
effect applies to the same roll? For example, the weapon from
the previous example might have a rule that says it inflicts
D6 mortal wounds on a hit roll of 6 and the attack sequence
ends – would I get to inflict two hits that each inflicted D6
mortal wounds?
A: When a dice roll triggers more than one effect, each
effect is triggered once. For this example, this means
that the hit roll would cause two hits, but only one of
the hits would inflict D6 mortal wounds (you would
carry out the rest of the attack procedure for the other
hit normally).
Q: Some old abilities refer to a roll of 6. What does this
mean exactly?
A: If an ability refers to a roll of 6 (rather than a roll of
6+ or a roll of 6 or more), it means a roll of 6 after rerolls but before any modifiers are applied.
DISTANCES
Q: Sometimes a rule will specify that a model or unit needs to
be ‘wholly within’ a certain distance. What exactly does ‘wholly
within’ mean?
A: A model is wholly within a certain distance if every
part of its base is within the stated distance. A unit is
wholly within a certain distance if every part of the
bases of all of the models in the unit is within the
stated distance.
For example, a model would be wholly within 12" of the
edge of the battlefield as long as every part of its base
was 12" or less from the edge, while a unit would be
wholly within 12" of the edge of the battlefield as long
as every part of every base of the models from the unit
were 12" or less from the edge.
Q: Sometimes I need to measure the range to a slain model
– how do I do so when slain models are removed and put to
one side?
A: Measure to the location that the model’s base had
occupied. You may wish to leave the model in place until
you have measured the distance, or temporarily return it
to its old position.
Q: Sometimes a spell will have an area of effect (e.g. all models
from a unit that are within 18" of the caster, or all models
within 3" of a point on the battlefield that is within 24" of the
caster). If an ability increases the range of the spell, is the size
of this area of effect increased by the same amount as the range
is increased?
A: If the area of effect is measured from the caster, yes.
If the area of effect is measured from a point on the
battlefield, no – the ability will increase the range to
the point on the battlefield instead. To carry on your
example, if an ability increased the range of a spell by
6", then in the first case the spell would affect all the
models from the unit that were within 24" of the caster
instead of 18", while in the second case the range of
the point on the battlefield would be 30" instead of 24"
but the spell would still only affect models within 3" of
that point. Note that if area of effect is measured from a
point on the battlefield, and that point is ‘anywhere on
the battlefield’, then an ability that increases the range
will have no effect on that spell.
RESERVES
Q: Can models set up in reserve (in the Celestial Realm, for
example) cast spells, or use abilities or command abilities to
affect other units?
A: No. Only models deployed on the battlefield can cast
spells, or use abilities or command abilities to affect
other units.
Q: Some abilities allow you to remove a unit from the battlefield
and set it up again, and say that this ‘counts as their move for
the movement phase’ (or words to that effect). Do these units
count as having made a move for the purposes of any other rules
or abilities?
A: No, it simply restricts them from making a move
later on.
Q: Are things like Fanatics or Assassins that hide inside
another unit, or embarked Kharadron Overlords units, counted
as being reserves?
A: Only if the unit that they are ‘inside’ is in reserve. A
reserve unit is a unit that is set up in a location other
than on the battlefield. Units that are on the battlefield
are not reserves, even if the models themselves are not
set up.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Core Rules, Designers’ Commentary 4
BATTLE ROUNDS
Q: Does the player that first finished setting up their army
always choose who has the first turn in the first battle round, or
is it only if the roll-off is a tie?
A: The player that first finished setting up their army
always chooses who has the first turn in the first battle
round, unless specifically noted otherwise in the
battleplan that is being used.
COMMAND ABILITIES
Q: Many command abilities on older warscrolls don’t
specify in which phase they are used. When can I use such
command abilities?
A: Command abilities that don’t specify when they are
used are always used in your hero phase.
Q: Some command abilities refer to a model ‘using’ a command
ability. What does this mean exactly?
A: It means that when you use the command ability,
you must pick that model as the one that the command
ability is measured from. In the core rules, the model
that a command ability is measured from is the model
that is using that command ability.
Q: Can I spend 2 or more command points to allow the same
model to use the same command ability more than once in the
same phase?
A: Yes, unless specifically noted otherwise.
MOVEMENT
Q: Are you allowed to move a unit across another friendly unit?
A: Models can move through the gaps between the
models in another unit (if they can fit), but are not
allowed to move across other models unless they can fly.
Q: Are models allowed to climb a terrain feature such as a
Fortress Wall?
A: For simplicity and ease of play, the rules allow any
model to climb any terrain feature. If you wish, you can
only allow models to move to places that they could
reach ‘in real life’, but it will require a certain amount of
common sense in order to make such a house rule work.
Q: If the height of the terrain feature exceeds a model’s
movement, can it be climbed over multiple turns? Can a model
run up a terrain feature?
A: Yes to both questions. A model may need to spend
several turns climbing an especially high terrain feature
(you will need to remember how far it has climbed each
turn, and measure distances and visibility to or from
that model as if it were in that location).
Q: Some abilities require a model that can fly to ‘pass across’ a
model from an enemy unit. How exactly does this work?
A: In order for a model to pass across another, part of
the moving model’s base must have moved across any
part of the other model’s base. To determine if this
is the case, trace the flying model’s move across the
battlefield, checking to see if its base passed across any
part of the other model’s base at any point in its move.
Note that this means that the flying model can move up
to an enemy model so that their bases overlap, and then
move back, and will count as having ‘passed across’ the
other model.
Q: Can a flying model finish a normal move or a retreat move
within 3" of an enemy unit?
A: No.
Q: Some abilities halve the Move characteristic of a unit,
but don’t say if you round up or down. If this is the case, are
fractions retained? For example, if I halved a 7" Move, would it
become 3.5"?
A: Yes to both questions.
Q: If an ability or spell stops another unit from being able to fly,
does this stop that unit from being able to move at all?
A: No, it simply means that the Flying rules do not apply
to it.
Q: Sometimes an ability is used after a model moves. When this
is the case, assuming the model is allowed to make a move, if I
decide to leave it stationary, can I still use the ability?
A: Yes. For the purposes of the Age of Sigmar rules, if
a model is allowed to move, you can choose to ‘move’ it
0 inches.
MOVEMENT PHASE
Q: Some abilities allow a unit to be set up ‘at the end of the
movement phase’. Can the unit make a normal move after it is
set up in this way?
A: No. Things that happen at the end of the phase take
place after all of that phase’s normal activities; in the
case of the movement phase, this means they occur after
all normal moves have been made.
Q: Some abilities refer to a model or unit making a ‘normal
move’. Does this include normal moves where the model or unit
runs or retreats?
A: Yes.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Core Rules, Designers’ Commentary 5
Q: Some abilities allow a model to make a move out of sequence
(in the hero phase, for example), or to make a specific type of
move (a ‘6" retreat move’, for example). Can I run when I make
these moves?
A: You can only run if the ability refers to making
a ‘normal move’ (which includes any move made
‘as if it were the movement phase’) and the ability
doesn’t specify the distance of the move. Note that the
restrictions that apply to normal moves (not moving
within 3" of the enemy, and having to retreat if they
start within 3" of the enemy) also apply to normal moves
made in any other phase. Also note that the increase to
the unit’s Move characteristic for running only applies
to that move.
So, for example, if the ability said ‘This unit can make
a normal move’ the unit could run and could not move
within 3" of the enemy unless it retreats, and if it said
‘This unit can move D6".’ then it could not run but could
move within 3" of the enemy.
CHARGE PHASE
Q: If I charge a model on a terrain feature, and there isn’t a
space on which the charging model can stand, can it still make
the charge move?
A: Yes. As noted above, for simplicity and ease of play,
models are assumed to be able to climb up any terrain
feature, and can finish a move at any point when they do
so (you will need to remember how far it has climbed,
and measure distances and visibility to or from that
model as if it were in that location).
COMBAT PHASE
Q: Can the closest enemy model at the start of a pile-in move be
one that is inaccessible or not visible to friendly models, or is it
the closest visible and/or reachable enemy model?
A: The answer is the former: the closest model is
measured purely by distance, not accessibility or visibility.
Q: If an ability allows a unit to pile in more than the standard
3", can the unit pile in and attack in the combat phase if it is
more than 3" from the enemy?
A: No, unless the ability specifically states otherwise.
Q: Some abilities allow a unit to pile in and attack twice, while
others allow a unit to immediately pile in and attack a second
time. What is the difference?
A: The former allows you to pick the unit to fight twice
over the course of the combat phase, rather than only
once, while the second allows you to fight with the unit
twice in immediate succession. The first version will
therefore give your opponent a chance to pick a unit
to fight with before you can fight again with your unit,
while the second version will not.
Q: What happens when a unit that has been split into two
groups because of casualties piles in?
A: A unit must finish any type of move as a single group,
including pile-in moves. If this is impossible for any
reason, no models from the unit can move.
Q: Some abilities allow or require a unit to fight at the start of
the combat phase, or the end of the combat phase. How exactly
does this work? What happens if two or more units have to fight
at the start or the end of the phase?
A: Units that fight at the start or the end of the combat
phase make a pile-in move and then attack with their
melee weapons before the players start picking any other
units to fight in that phase, or after the players have
picked all other units to fight in that phase, respectively.
So, first you pile in and make attacks with the units that
are to fight at the start of the phase, then the players
alternate picking units to fight with, starting with the
player whose turn is taking place, and lastly you pile in
and make attacks with units that make attacks at the end
of the combat phase. If there are several units fighting at
the start or the end of the phase, the player whose turn
is taking place attacks with all of their units in the order
of their choice, and then their opponent does the same.
Q: One of my models is within 1" of the nearest enemy model
from a unit. When my model piles in, do I have to finish the
move as close or closer to that specific enemy model, or can I
finish the move within 1" of a different enemy model?
A: You must finish the move as close or closer to that
specific enemy model.
Q: When one of my models piles in, if it is equally close to two
different enemy models, do I have to finish the move as close or
closer to each of those models? For example, if my model is in
base contact with two enemy models, does it have to finish a
pile-in move in base contact with both those models?
A: Yes to both questions – if this is impossible the model
cannot move.
ATTACKING
Q: Can I choose not to attack with a model, or not to use one or
more of a model’s weapons when it attacks?
A: You can choose not to attack with a unit or a weapon
in the shooting phase. In the combat phase you must
pick a unit to fight with if you have any eligible to do so,
and the models in a unit that is selected to fight must
attack with all of the weapons they are allowed to use
and which are in range of an enemy unit.
Q: Hit and wound rolls of 6 before modification always
succeed, but the same rule does not seem to apply to save rolls. Is
this correct?
A: Yes it is – save rolls automatically fail on an
unmodified roll of 1, but do not automatically succeed
on an unmodified roll of 6.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Core Rules, Designers’ Commentary 6
Q: Sometimes an ability allows a unit to ‘make an extra attack’
or ‘one extra attack’ with a specific weapon. Does this mean you
add 1 to the weapon’s Attacks characteristic and therefore only
make one extra set of hit/wound/save rolls?
A: Yes.
Q: When I use the Multiple Attacks rule to make several hit/
wound/save rolls at the same time, are the hit/wound/save rolls
considered to be a single roll for the purposes of an ability that
allows me to re-roll 1 hit/wound/save roll? For example, if I
had a unit of 10 models, and was allowed to re-roll 1 hit roll
when they attacked, would I be allowed to re-roll all 10 hit rolls
or just 1?
A: You can only re-roll 1 of the hit/wound/save rolls.
The Multiple Attacks rule simply allows you to make
all of the rolls at the same time – you are still making
separate rolls, you are just doing them simultaneously.
WOUNDS AND DAMAGE
Q: Can an attack with a Damage characteristic of more than 1
slay more than one model?
A: Yes, as long as all the models are from the same unit.
Q: Some abilities refer to a unit ‘suffering’ a wound, while
others refer to models or units ‘inflicting’ a wound – do such
abilities apply to wounds that are saved, negated, healed
or ignored?
A: No. In the Warhammer Age of Sigmar rules, the
term ‘suffered’ or ‘inflicted’ refers to a wound that
is allocated to a model and has not been negated
or healed.
Q: Does a wound or mortal wound that is negated still count
as having been allocated to a model? Some abilities refer to the
number of wounds that have been allocated to a model – would
this include any wounds that were negated?
A: No to both questions. Whenever a rule refers to the
wounds that have been allocated to a model, wounds
that were negated or healed are not counted.
Q: If an ability allows me to re-roll a damage roll, can I re-roll
the number of mortal wounds caused by an ability or spell?
A: No, a ‘damage roll’ refers only to the roll made to
determine a random Damage characteristic.
Q: If a model is slain but later returned to its unit in the same
turn, does it count as being slain for battleshock tests? If it
were slain, returned and slain again, would it count as being
slain twice?
A: Yes to both questions.
VISIBILITY
Q: Some attacks, spells or abilities require a unit to be visible in
order for them to be used. When this is the case, must the whole
unit be visible?
A: No, all that is required is for at least one model from
the unit to be visible.
WIZARDS AND SPELLS
Q: Some abilities allow a unit to ignore the effects of a spell.
What does this mean exactly?
A: It means that the rule effects caused by a spell
that has been successfully cast and that has not been
unbound do not apply to the unit. Any other units will
be affected normally.
Q: The rules say that extra attacks gained by the use of an
ability cannot themselves generate further attacks (so if a hit roll
of 6 would generate another attack, it would not do so again
if you roll another 6 for the bonus attack). Does this also apply
to spells?
A: Yes.
Q: If there is a spell that appears on two different warscrolls
and has exactly the same name, can I use them both in the
same turn?
A: No.
TERRAIN
Q: Can a unit that is set up once the battle is under way be set
up as a garrison?
A: No, only units set up before the battle can be set up as
a garrison unless specifically stated otherwise.
ABILITIES
Q: If two abilities affect a value, and one adds a modifier to the
value and the other either multiplies or divides the value, do
you apply the modifiers before or after multiplying or dividing
the value?
A: Apply the modifiers after multiplying or dividing
the value.
Q: Pre-battle abilities are used before the first battle round
begins. Can they be used before, during or after armies are
set up?
A: Unless specifically noted otherwise, they are used
after the armies are set up and the general is chosen.
Q: Some abilities are used at the start of a battle round. When
this is the case, are they used before the players roll off to
determine which player has the first turn?
A: Yes.
Q: Some abilities are used at the start of a player’s turn.
When this is the case, are they used before the player’s hero
phase starts?
A: Yes.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Core Rules, Designers’ Commentary 7
Q: If several abilities are triggered at the same time (at the start
of a hero phase, for example), how do you determine the order in
which they are used?
A: If several abilities can be used at the same time, the
player whose turn is taking place uses their abilities
first, one after the other, in any order they desire; then
the player whose turn is not taking place uses their
abilities, one after another, in any order they desire.
The same principle applies to any other things – such
as command traits or artefacts of power – that can be
used simultaneously.
Q: If I use an ability that allows a unit to do something in the
hero phase as if it were a different phase, can I use abilities that
could affect it in that phase in the hero phase? For example,
if I was allowed to make a shooting attack with a unit in my
hero phase as if it were my shooting phase, would an ability
that allowed me to make an extra attack with that unit in my
shooting phase apply?
A: No to both questions. Abilities that state they can
only be used or only apply in a certain phase can only
be used in that phase and/or their effects will only apply
in that phase. So, if an ability says you can use it in your
movement phase, it can only be used in your movement
phase, or if an ability said it applied in your shooting
phase, you can only apply its effects in your shooting
phase, and so on.
Q: When the word ‘any’ is used in the criteria for an ability,
how many times is that ability applied when the criteria for
the ability are fulfilled? For example, if an ability said ‘Add
1 to hit rolls for models that are within 6" of any models with
this ability’, would I add 1 to the hit rolls of a model that was
within 6" of three models with the ability, or would I add 3 to
the hit rolls?
A: The word ‘any’ is treated as being synonymous with
‘one or more’. In your example, this means that 1 would
be added to the hit rolls, not 3.
Q: Sometimes an ability will refer to ‘this model’ or ‘this
unit’, and sometimes to ‘that model’ or ‘that unit’. Is there
a difference?
A: Yes. When an ability says ‘this model’ or ‘this unit’,
it is referring to the model or unit to which the ability
applies. When an ability says ‘that model’ or ‘that unit’,
it is referring to a model or unit that was referred to
earlier in the same ability. So, for example, an ability
on a model’s warscroll might say: ‘Pick an enemy unit
within 12" of this model. That unit suffers D3 mortal
wounds.’ This would mean that you pick an enemy unit
within 12" of a model that has this ability, and inflict D3
mortal wounds on the unit that you picked.
Q: Sometimes an ability will refer to a friendly model that is
within a certain distance of ‘this model’ (or ‘the bearer’ or ‘this
general’, etc.). When this is the case, do both models have to be
from the same army?
A: Yes. When used in this way, ‘friendly model’ means ‘a
model that is in the same army as’.
Q: Sometimes an ability requires you to draw a straight line
from a model, and everything under that line is affected by
the ability. Is the model you draw the line from affected by the
ability too?
A: No. The line is drawn from the edge of the model’s
base, so the model itself is not under the line.
Q: Some abilities stipulate that you can pick a certain number
of units to be affected by the ability. For example, you might pick
D6 units and roll a dice for each to see if they suffer any mortal
wounds. When this is the case, must the units I pick be different
units, or can I pick the same unit several times?
A: They must be different units unless specifically noted
otherwise in the rules for the ability.
Q: If an ability says it negates a wound, will it also negate a
mortal wound?
A: No, unless the ability specifically says it negates
mortal wounds. By the same token, an ability that
negates only mortal wounds will not negate wounds.
Q: Sometimes an ability will say that a slain model is not
removed from play, and you instead heal 1 or more wounds
allocated to the model. If there are any wounds remaining to
be allocated to the slain model or the unit it belongs to, are
they negated?
A: No, unless the ability specifically says it negates any
remaining wounds or mortal wounds.
Q: If an ability allows a unit to ‘fight’, does that mean it can
pile in and attack, or just attack?
A: It can pile in and attack.
Q: Sometimes an ability will allow me to re-roll a dice roll. Does
this allow me to re-roll roll-offs?
A: No.
Q: Some abilities and spells, etc, allow me to return slain
models to one of my units. Could you explain how these models
are set up?
A: Set up the models one at a time within 1" of a model
from the unit they are returning to – this can be a
model you returned to the unit earlier in the same
phase. The slain models you return to a unit can only be
set up within 3" of an enemy unit if one or more models
from the unit they are returning to are already within 3"
of that enemy unit.
ALLEGIANCE ABILITIES
Q: My army’s allegiance is chosen when I choose my army – do
I have to determine the specific command traits, spells and
artefacts of power for my army at the same time?
A: Yes. Note that if an allegiance ability such as a
command trait or artefact of power requires you to ‘pick
a weapon’, this must also be done when you choose your
army, unless specifically noted otherwise.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Core Rules, Designers’ Commentary 8
Q: The rules say that a warscroll battalion can include allies
and that they don’t count against the number of allies in the
army. Does this rule only apply to battalions that share the
same allegiance as the army, but that have units from two
different factions (a battalion in a Daughters of Khaine army
that has Daughters of Khaine and Stormcast Eternals units,
for example)?
A: Yes. The faction a warscroll battalion belongs to is
shown on its warscroll, above the title of the battalion.
In addition, the battalion is assumed to belong to the
Grand Alliance that its faction is a part of. Warscroll
battalions that share the same allegiance as an army
can always be taken as part of the army, and if they
include any allied units, these units do not count against
the limits on the number of allies the army can have
(or against the points limit that can be spent on allies
in a Pitched Battle). An army can include a warscroll
battalion of a different allegiance to the rest of the
army, but if it does so the units in it do count against the
limits on the number of allies the army can have (and
the points for the battalion and the units in it count
against the points limit that can be spent on allies in a
Pitched Battle).
Q: Some spell and prayer allegiance abilities say that can be
used by Wizards or Priests in the army. Does this include
allied Wizards or Priests?
A: No. Allied models cannot use or benefit from
allegiance abilities.
Q: If I add units to my army after a battle has started, and
my army has an allegiance ability that adds a keyword to the
units in the army, is that keyword received by eligible units I
add to my army after the battle has begun? For example, if I
have a Stormcast Eternals army and use the Stormhosts rule to
give all Stormcast Eternals units in the army the Hammers
of Sigmar keyword, would any new Stormcast Eternals units
that I add to my army get the keyword? By the same token,
if an allegiance ability has a spell lore that grants a spell to
Wizards in an army, do Wizards that I add to the army
that have the appropriate allegiance gain a spell?
A: Yes to all questions.
Q: Are allies any units that do not have the keyword that
corresponds to an army’s allegiance?
A: Yes, with the exception of terrain features and
endless spells.
Q: Can allied Heroes be given artefacts of power, and can
allied Wizards be given spells from a spell lore?
A: No to both questions.
Q: A Sylvaneth Gnarlroot Wargrove can include an Order
Wizard, and a Sylvaneth Winterleaf Wargrove can include
an Order unit. Are such units allies?
A: Yes they are. However, because they are part of
a Sylvaneth warscroll battalion, they do not count
towards the number of allied units you can include
in a Sylvaneth army, and their points will not count
against the number of points spent on allied units for a
Sylvaneth army in a Pitched Battle. Note that although
they don’t count against these limits, for all other rules
purposes they are treated as being allied units, and
therefore can’t be given artefacts of power, know spells
from its spell lores, and so on.
Q: Some warscroll battalions included in battletomes do not
have a faction listed above their title. How do I determine which
faction they belong to for the purposes of allegiance abilities?
A: The battalion belongs to the battletome’s faction.
For example, the warscroll battalions in Battletome:
Stormcast Eternals are part of the Stormcast
Eternals faction.
Q: Is a named character assumed to have an artefact of power
for any rules purposes?
A: No.
Q: Some armies have ‘sub-factions’, like the Stormhosts in
Battletome: Stormcast Eternals and the Enclaves in Battletome:
Idoneth Deepkin. These often often require a general to
take a specific command trait. What happens if the general
cannot have a command trait, if they are a named character,
for example?
A: If the general cannot have a command trait, then
nothing happens (they do not get to use the command
trait from the sub-faction).
PITCHED BATTLES
Q: Some units and battalions have a warscroll, but the
warscroll does not have a Pitched Battle profile. Can I use these
units or battalions in a Pitched Battle game?
A: No. These units and battalions are only intended for
use in open or narrative play games.
Q: Some terrain features have a Pitched Battle profile. Does
this mean that when I pick my army I can include them on the
army roster?
A: No, the profiles are included for those instances when
a spell or ability allows you to set up the terrain feature.
Q: If I add units to a Pitched Battle army after a battle has
started, can I do so in excess of any limits that apply? For
example, could I summon extra Behemoths if my army already
included the maximum number it can take?
A: The limits on the number of Leaders, Artillery
units and Behemoths that can be included in a Pitched
Battle army only apply when you are picking your army
before the battle begins, so you can ignore these limits
when you add units of these types to your army. Unique
models, on the other hand, can only ever be taken once.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Core Rules, Designers’ Commentary 9
Q: In a Pitched Battle, I receive 1 extra command point for
every 50 points I don’t spend on units. Do points spent on
warscroll battalions, endless spells and terrain features count as
points spent on units for the purposes of this rule?
A: Yes.
Q: Does including an endless spell in an army chosen for a
Pitched Battle have any effect on the army’s allegiance? Does it
count against the number of points spent on allies?
A: No to both questions.
Q: I have a Stormcast Eternals Errant-Questor from
Warhammer World. The model’s warscroll includes a Pitched
Battle profile, but it doesn’t appear in the General’s Handbook
2018 or any of the official army building apps. Can I use it in
a Pitched Battle game?
A: Yes.
Q: Some units have the battleline role if they are in an army
with allegiance to a specific faction – for example, Judicators
are battleline in a Stormcast Eternals army. Say I built an
army that could have allegiance to a faction (e.g. Stormcast
Eternals), can I use the Grand Alliance allegiance abilities
for the army (e.g. Order), while still counting those units
as battleline?
A: No.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar Core Book, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in the Warhammer Age
of Sigmar Core Book. The errata are updated regularly;
when changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Page 254 – Realm of Battle: Shyish, Realm Commands,
Soul-force Sacrifice
Change to:
‘You can use this command ability at the start of your
hero phase. If you do so, pick 1 friendly unit other than
your general that is within 3" of your general. Allocate
any number of wounds to that unit that you wish –
you can heal 1 wound that has been allocated to your
general for each wound that you allocate.’
Page 260 – Realm of Battle: Ulgu, Realmscape Features,
Shadow Realms
Add the following sentence to the end of the rule:
‘The unit may not move in the subsequent
movement phase.’
Page 303 – Triumph and Treachery
Add the following before the Victory Points section:
‘ENDLESS SPELLS
In Triumph & Treachery battles, predatory endless spells
are moved after the first player had been determined,
but before their turn takes place. The player to the left
of the first player picks an endless spell to move, then
the player to that player’s left moves a spell, and so on
clockwise round the table until all predatory endless
spells have been moved. A player must pick a predatory
endless spell to move if any are available, but only
predatory endless spells that have not yet moved can
be chosen.’
CORE BOOK
Official Errata, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – General’s Handbook 2018, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in the General’s
Handbook 2018. The errata are updated regularly; when
changes are made any changes from the previous version
will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a
note, e.g. ‘Regional update’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Page 60 – Places of Arcane Power, Objectives
Change the second paragraph to:
‘The normal rules for controlling an objective are not
used in this battle. Instead, a player controls an objective
if a friendly Hero with an artefact of power, or a friendly
Wizard, is within 3" of the objective at the end of any
type of move apart from a retreat move. The player loses
control of the objective if the Hero or Wizard is not
within 3" of it.’
Page 62 – Pitched Battle Profiles, Introduction
Add the following section:
‘ARMIES WITHOUT ALLEGIANCE ABILITIES
If a faction army does not have a set of allegiance
abilities, then you can use its Grand Alliance allegiance
abilities instead. For example, if you had an Eshin army
you could use the Grand Alliance Chaos allegiance
abilities, and if you had an Order Draconis army you
could use the Grand Alliance Order allegiance abilities.
Note that if allegiance abilities exist for a faction army,
you must use them.’
Page 65 – Chaos Pitched Battle Profiles, Clans
Verminus, Stormvermin
Change the maximum unit size to ‘40’
Page 66 – Chaos Pitched Battle Profiles, Disciples
of Tzeentch
Add the following new pitched battle profile:
UNIT MIN MAX POINTS
Tzeentch Chaos Spawn 1 6 50
Page 66 – Chaos Pitched Battle Profiles, Everchosen
Change the unit name ‘Gaunt Summoner of Tzeentch’
to ‘Gaunt Summoner on Disc of Tzeentch’
Page 69 – Chaos Allies, Slaves to Darkness
Add ‘Monsters of Chaos’ to the list of Slaves to
Darkness allies.
Page 69 – Allies table, Slaanesh, Khorne, Nurgle and
Tzeentch allies lists
Change to:
Slaanesh: Beasts of Chaos (excluding Khorne
units), Everchosen, Monsters of Chaos, Nurgle,
Slaves to Darkness (excluding units with mark of
Khorne), Tzeentch
Khorne: Beasts of Chaos (excluding Slaanesh units),
Everchosen, Monsters of Chaos, Nurgle, Slaves to
Darkness (excluding units with mark of Slaanesh)
Nurgle: Beasts of Chaos (excluding Tzeentch units),
Everchosen, Khorne, Monsters of Chaos, Slaanesh,
Slaves to Darkness (excluding units with mark
of Tzeentch)
Tzeentch: Beasts of Chaos (excluding Nurgle units),
Everchosen, Monsters of Chaos, Slaves to Darkness
(excluding units with mark of Nurgle)
Page 71 – Death Pitched Battle Profiles, Legions of
Nagash, Black Coach
Change the name to ‘Legion Black Coach’
Page 80 – Idoneth Deepkin, points
Some of these points costs are incorrect – use those
below instead. These match the points costs printed in
Battletome: Idoneth Deepkin, which are correct.
IDONETH DEEPKIN POINTS UNIT
Akhelian Leviadon 380
Eidolon of Mathlann, Aspect of
the Storm 400
Eidolon of Mathlann, Aspect of
the Sea 440
Isharann Soulscryer 100
Akhelian Morrsarr Guard 160
Akhelian Corps 100
Namarti Corps 100
Royal Council 140
GENERAL’S HANDBOOK 2018
Official Errata, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – General’s Handbook 2018, Errata 2
Page 99 – Summon Daemons of Tzeentch
Change the first sentence of the second paragraph of
rules to:
‘If you have 10 or more Fate Points at the end of your
movement phase, you can summon one or more units
from the list below onto the battlefield, and add them to
your army.’
Page 129 – Liber Bubonicus
Change the rules text to:
‘The bearer can use the Pestilent Prayers ability from
the Plague Priest warscroll. If the bearer can already use
the Pestilent Prayers ability, then it can use the Pestilent
Prayers ability twice in your hero phase.’
Page 130 – Warpstone Sparks
Change the third bullet point to:
‘Add 1 to the damage inflicted by 1 successful attack
made by a friendly Skryre model with a missile weapon
or melee weapon.’
Page 134 – Ironjawz, Mighty Destroyers
Add to the end of the rules:
‘You cannot pick the same unit to benefit from this
ability more than once per hero phase.’
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – General’s Handbook 2018, Designer’s Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
the General’s Handbook 2018. It is presented as a series
of questions and answers; the questions are based on
ones that have been asked by players, and the answers
are provided by the rules writing team explain and how
the rules are intended to be used. The commentaries
help provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Q: Can a Slann general convert more than 1 spell into
conjuration points in each of its hero phases?
A: Yes.
Q: Do mortal wounds count as wounds for the purposes of the
Feed on Depravity rule?
A: No.
Q: Do the Pitched Battle profiles for the Tzaangor Shaman,
Tzaangor Enlightened, Tzaangor Skyfires and Tzaangors in
the Beasts of Chaos battletome override those in the Disciples of
Tzeentch table in the General’s Handbook 2018, and can those
units (including Tzaangor Enlightened on Discs) be taken as
part of a Tzeentch army?
A: Yes to both questions. Updated Pitched Battle profiles
always take precedence over any profiles with an earlier
publication date or no publication date. As these units
all have the Tzeentch keyword, they can be taken as
part of a Tzeentch army.
GENERAL’S HANDBOOK 2018
Designers’ Commentary, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Malign Sorcery, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Malign Sorcery.
The errata are updated regularly; when changes are
made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Regional update’, this means it has had a local update,
only in that language, to clarify a translation issue or
other minor correction.
Page 72 – Spells of Ghyran, Mirrorpool
Add the following sentence to the end of the rule:
‘It may not move in the subsequent movement phase.’
Page 78 – Spells of Hysh, Banishment
Change the rules text to:
‘Banishment has a casting value of 8. If successfully cast,
pick 1 enemy unit within 12" of the caster that is visible
to them. Your opponent must remove that unit from the
battlefield and then set it up again, anywhere on the
battlefield more than 24" from the caster and more than
9" from any other models from the caster’s army.’
Page 79 – Artefacts of Power: Relics of Ghyran,
Jade Diadem
Change the rules text to:
‘If the unmodified save roll for an attack that targets the
bearer is 6, heal 1 wound allocated to the bearer.’
Page 81 – Artefacts of Power, Relics of Chamon,
Hydroxskin Cloak
Change the rules text to:
‘The bearer can fly. After the bearer has made a normal
move, you can pick 1 unit that has any models that the
bearer has passed across and roll a dice. On a 3+ that
unit suffers D3 mortal wounds.’
Page 84 – Artefacts of Power, Relics of Ulgu,
Doppelganger Cloak
Change the rules text to:
‘Once per battle, at the start of the combat phase, you
can say that the bearer will put on the cloak. If you do
so, the bearer cannot be chosen as the target of attacks
made with melee weapons unless the bearer has made
any attacks earlier in that phase.’
Page 84 – Artefacts of Power, Relics of Ulgu, Talisman of
the Watcher
Change the last sentence to:
‘You can re-roll save rolls of 1 for that unit until the end
of that phase.’
Page 85 – Artefacts of Power, Relics of Hysh, Lens
of Refraction
Change the rules text to:
‘Once per battle round, the first time a friendly unit
within 6" of the bearer suffers any mortal wounds
inflicted by a spell or endless spell, roll a D3 and reduce
the number of mortal wounds suffered by the roll.’
Umbral Spellportal warscroll card, Arcane Passage
Change the rules text to:
‘If a Wizard successfully casts a spell while they are
within 1" of an Umbral Spellportal model, the range and
visibility of the spell can be measured from the other
Umbral Spellportal model from this endless spell. After
the range and visibility for a spell has been measured
from an Umbral Spellportal, you cannot use the Arcane
Passage ability again for that Umbral Spellportal in
that phase.
If a predatory endless spell finishes a move within 6"
of an Umbral Spellportal model, remove it from the
battlefield and set it up again anywhere within 6" of the
other Umbral Spellportal model from this endless spell.
After an endless spell finishes a move within 6" of an
Umbral Spellportal and is set up again, it cannot move
again in that phase, and you cannot use the Arcane
Passage ability again for that Umbral Spellportal in
that phase.’
MALIGN SORCERY
Official Errata, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Malign Sorcery, Errata 2
Geminids of Uhl-Gysh card, Tendrils of Shadow
and Light
Change the rules text to:
‘After the Shadow Geminid model has moved, each unit
that has any models it passed across suffers D3 mortal
wounds. In addition, subtract 1 (to a minimum of 1)
from the Attacks characteristic of melee weapons used
by each unit that has any models it passed across until
the end of the battle round. A unit is not affected by
the Shadow Geminid model if it has been passed across
by the Light Geminid model earlier in the same battle
round. After the Light Geminid model has moved, each
unit that has any models it passed across suffers D3
mortal wounds. In addition, subtract 1 from hit rolls
for each unit that has any models it passed across until
the end of the battle round. A unit is not affected by
the Light Geminid model if it has been passed across by
the Shadow Geminind model earlier in the same battle
round (a unit can be affected by one or other of the
models each battle round, but not both).’
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Malign Sorcery, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Malign Sorcery. It is presented as a series of questions
and answers; the questions are based on ones that have
been asked by players, and the answers are provided by
the rules writing team explain and how the rules are
intended to be used. The commentaries help provide a
default setting for your games, but players should always
feel free to discuss the rules before a game, and change
things as they see fit if they both want to do so (changes
like this are usually referred to as ‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the stated date has a
note, e.g. ‘Regional update’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Q: Some abilities allow a model to know additional spells,
including additional endless spells. In a Pitched Battle, can you
use these abilities to cast endless spells if you did not spend the
points for those endless spells? In addition, can these abilities
be used to cast endless spells that can normally only be cast by
Wizards that have a specific keyword?
A: No to both questions.
Q: Do things that increase the range of a caster’s spells also
apply to the distance at which an endless spell can be set up
from the caster?
A: No. Things that increase the range of a spell’s effects
do not apply to the distance at which an endless spell
can be set up. By the same token, things that allow
you to measure the range of a spell from a different
location to the caster cannot be used when setting up an
endless spell.
Q: Sometimes an ability will allow a model to attempt to unbind
a spell. Does this also allow them to dispel an endless spell?
A: No. It will allow them to attempt to unbind the
endless spell when it is cast, but has no effect on endless
spells that are on the battlefield unless specifically
noted otherwise.
Q: Do abilities that modify or re-roll an unbinding roll have
any effect on a dispel roll?
A: No.
Q: If a Wizard has an ability that increases the number
of mortal wounds inflicted by the spells they cast, does this
ability also apply to the abilities of any endless spells that the
wizard casts?
A: No.
Q: Do abilities that provide protection against the effects of
spells, or wounds inflicted by spells, also provide protection
against the effects or wounds inflicted by an endless spell?
A: Yes.
Q: Do models that are slain by endless spells at the start of the
battle round count as casualties inflicted in the first turn of that
battle round for battleshock tests? Do they count towards the
number of wounds inflicted on Morathi (both versions) in the
first turn?
A: No to both questions.
Q: Can the Aethervoid Pendulum move both forwards
and backwards?
A: No. It always moves in the same direction.
Q: Does the Purple Sun of Shyish only do 2D6 mortal wounds
to units with a Wounds characteristic of 6 or more if you first
roll a 6+?
A: Yes.
Q: If the range of a spell is measured from an Umbral
Spellportal, is the range for unbinding measured to the caster or
the portal?
A: It is measured to the caster.
Q: Some spells require you to pick a point on the battlefield
within a certain distance of the caster, and then draw a line
from that point back to the caster. Can this point be measured
from an Umbral Spellportal, and if it can, is the line drawn
back to the caster?
A: Yes to both questions.
MALIGN SORCERY
Designers’ Commentary, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Malign Portents, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Malign Portents.
The errata are updated regularly; when changes are
made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Page 70 – Lord-Ordinator
This warscroll is no longer used. It has been replaced
with the warscroll in Battletome: Stormcast Eternals.
Page 76 – Knight of Shrouds
This warscroll is no longer used. It has been replaced
with the warscroll in Battletome: Nighthaunt.
Page 79 – Warscryer Citadel
This warscroll is no longer used. It has been replaced
with the warscroll in the General’s Handbook 2018.
Page 80 – Including Harbingers of the Malign Portents
Add:
‘The ‘Harbingers of the Malign Portents’ rule explains
how to use Lord-Ordinators, Darkoath Warqueens,
Knights of Shrouds and Fungoid Cave-Shamans in
games of Warhammer Age of Sigmar which use the
Malign Portents rules. The following rule can be used
by players who wish to use these models in their armies
in open, narrative or matched play games not using the
Malign Portents rules.
Lord-Ordinators, Darkoath Warqueens, Knights of
Shrouds and Fungoid Cave-Shamans can be included
in any army that shares their Grand Alliance keyword.
They are not treated as part of the player’s army for
the purposes of defining its allegiance and what
allegiance abilities it qualifies for.
Lord-Ordinators, Darkoath Warqueens, Knights of
Shrouds and Fungoid Cave-Shamans can be given a
command trait or artefact of power if they share the
keyword of that army’s allegiance. However, a LordOrdinator, Darkoath Warqueen, Knight of Shrouds
or Fungoid Cave-Shaman can be chosen as the army’s
general even if they do not share the keyword of that
army’s allegiance.
In a Pitched Battle game, the points cost of any LordOrdinator, Darkoath Warqueen, Knight of Shrouds
or Fungoid Cave-Shaman counts against the points
allowance for allied units unless they share the same
keyword as the army’s allegiance.’
MALIGN PORTENTS
Official Errata, June 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
3/22/2019 Who Fights First? - Warhammer Community
https://www.warhammer-community.com/2019/03/21/who-fights-first/ 1/12
Posted 21/03/2019
Who Fights First?
Since the release of the Idoneth Deepkin battletome, we’ve been receiving more than a
few questions about the order in which units fight in the combat phase. These questions
have come about because there are now several ways that a unit can get to fight before
or after other units in the combat phase, and the way that these different abilities
interact can be confusing. So, we’ve enlisted Jervis Johnson and Ben Johnson (no
relation) from the Warhammer Age of Sigmar team to help.
Jervis & Ben: Up until now, we’ve addressed these questions as they have arisen in the
Designers’ Commentaries for the core rules and our battletomes. However, the
Designers’ Commentaries cannot go into much detail, and so we felt that it would be a

Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
3/22/2019 Who Fights First? - Warhammer Community
https://www.warhammer-community.com/2019/03/21/who-fights-first/ 2/12
good idea to provide everybody with a rather more detailed explanation of how to figure
out who gets to fight first in these circumstances. If you read the following guidelines,
you will always know the order in which to carry out your attacks.
A Couple of Pieces of Errata
Before going on to the guidelines proper, we’ve taken the opportunity to update the
wording for a couple of rules to make it easier to tell how they affect the order in which
units fight. Here are the errata in question:
We’ve made these changes to make it clear that these abilities happen at the start or end
of the combat phase respectively. This wasn’t all that obvious in their original wording,
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
3/22/2019 Who Fights First? - Warhammer Community
https://www.warhammer-community.com/2019/03/21/who-fights-first/ 3/12
which made it hard for players to work out exactly when they took place when there
were other units that could also fight at the start or end of the phase.
Who Goes First?
With these minor changes out of the way, it becomes much easier to explain how the
turn sequence works, not just in the combat phase but in every phase during a game of
Warhammer Age of Sigmar. All you need to do is keep the following three principles in
mind:
Putting It All Into Action
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
3/22/2019 Who Fights First? - Warhammer Community
https://www.warhammer-community.com/2019/03/21/who-fights-first/ 4/12
Let’s see how that all plays out in a combat phase where each player has several units
that can fight at the start of the combat phase and several units that can fight at the end.
The ‘Start, During, End’ principle means that the things noted as taking place at the start
of the phase happen first. The ‘You Go First In Your Turn’ principle means that the
player whose turn is taking place will get to fight with all of their units that fight at the
start of the phase, followed by their opponent. The ‘You Choose The Order’ principle
means that each player can pick the order in which their units that fight at the start of
the phase will fight.
Therefore, the player whose turn is taking place will fight with their units, one after the
other in the order of their choice, and then their opponent will fight with their units, one
after the other in the order of their choice.
Next, any units that can fight during the combat phase will do so. The core rules tell us
that the players alternate picking units with which to fight, starting with the player
whose turn is taking place, so you must use this sequence instead of following the
general principles described above. Or, to put it another way, just follow the normal
rules for units that fight at any time other than the start or end of the combat phase!
This just leaves the units that fight at the end of the combat phase. The principles that
applied to the units that fought at the start of the phase will also apply to those units that
fight at the end, so the player whose turn is taking place will fight with their units, one
after the other in the order of their choice, and then their opponent will fight with their
units, one after the other in the order of their choice.
One Last Thing…
Hopefully, you will now be clear in your mind about how to determine the order in
which units fight and also how to resolve any similar issues where several things end up
happening at the same time during a phase.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
3/22/2019 Who Fights First? - Warhammer Community
https://www.warhammer-community.com/2019/03/21/who-fights-first/ 5/12
Share this:
However, before we finish, it’s worth noting that although a phase is split into three
parts (Start, During, End), things that happen at the start and end of the phase still count
as happening in the phase in question. So, an ability that allows a unit to fight again
after it has fought for the first time in the combat phase will apply to units that fight at
the start or the end of the phase as well as during it.
And with that final bit of rules ephemera, we will leave you. If you have any feedback on
this article, or if you still have any questions about who fights first in the combat phase,
you can let us know by emailing AoSFAQ@gwplc.com. We can’t reply to the emails we
receive, but we do read each and every one.
Have fun, and keep rolling 6s!
SEQUENCE OF PLAY PRINCIPLES
1. Start, During, End
2. You Go First In Your Turn
3. You Choose The Order
Thanks, guys! You can get the new rules for yourself via the FAQ tab above.
 
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Season of War: Firestorm, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Season of War:
Firestorm. The errata are updated regularly; when
changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Page 54-55 – Choosing Your Allegiance
These rules are no longer used. Use the most recent
core rules instead.
Page 55 – Season of War: Firestorm City &
Warlord Armies
Change the third and fourth paragraphs to:
‘When you organise your collection to be an army
from a specific city or under the command of a specific
warlord, you must use the Grand Alliance allegiance
abilities for your army, but you can also use the City &
Warlord allegiance abilities on the following pages. Any
units that do not have the keywords listed under the
Organisation for the army can be taken as allies if they
are part of the same Grand Alliance as the army.
For example, if you had an Anvilgard army made up
entirely of Stormcast Eternals, you would use the
Order allegiance abilities and the Anvilgard allegiance
abilities on page 60. If you later added Free Peoples
to your army, both they and the Stormcast Eternals
would use the Order and Anvilgard allegiance abilities.
However, if you wanted to include Daughters of
Khaine as part of the army, they would have to be taken
as allies.’
Page 61 – Tempest’s Eye, Organisation
Add the following keywords to this list:
Dispossessed, Ironweld Arsenal
Page 64 – Greywater Fastness, Organisation
Add the following keyword to this list:
Dispossessed
SEASON OF WAR: FIRESTORM
Official Errata, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Grand Alliance: Chaos, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Grand Alliance:
Chaos. The errata are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Pages 8-17 – Everchosen
These warscrolls are no longer used. They have been
replaced with the warscrolls in Battletome: Everchosen.
Page 23 – Godsworn Champions of Ruin
Change the first bullet point under the Organisation
header to:
‘1 unit chosen from the following list: Daemon Prince,
Chaos Lord on Manticore, Chaos Sorcerer Lord on
Manticore, Chaos Sorcerer Lord, Lord of Chaos, Chaos
Lord on Daemonic Mount’
Pages 27 and 187 – Daemon Prince, Summon
Daemon Prince
Remove this spell.
Page 27 – Daemon Prince, keywords
Add the Slaves to Darkness keyword to each set of
Daemon Prince keywords.
Pages 46-156 – Khorne Bloodbound, Daemons of
Khorne, Tzeentch Arcanites, Daemons of Tzeentch,
Nurgle Rotbringers and Daemons of Nurgle
These warscrolls are no longer used. They have been
replaced with the warscrolls in Battletome: Blades of
Khorne, Battletome: Disciples of Tzeentch and Battletome:
Maggotkin of Nurgle.
Pages 158-190 – Hosts of Slaanesh and Daemons
of Chaos
Remove the following summoning spells:
• Summon Keeper of Secrets
• Summon Herald of Slaanesh
• Summon Seeker Herald
• Summon Hellflayer
• Summon Exalted Herald
• Summon Fiends of Slaanesh
• Summon Daemonettes
• Summon Seekers
• Summon Seeker Chariot
• Summon Exalted Chariot
• Summon Furies
• Summon Soul Grinder
Page 175, 177 – Daemonettes, Seekers, Icon Bearer
Change to:
‘Models in this unit may be Icon Bearers. If the
unmodified roll for a battleshock test for a unit that
includes any Icon Bearers is 1, you can add D6 models to
that unit, and no models from that unit will flee in that
battleshock phase.’
Page 183 – Hellstriders of Slaanesh, Enrapturing Banner
Change the last sentence of the rules text to:
‘Subtract 1 from hit rolls for attacks made by enemy
models while they are within 6" of any friendly units that
include any Enrapturing Banners.’
Pages 195-216; 218-221; 226 – Warscrolls and
Warscroll Battalions
These warscrolls and warscroll battalions are no longer
used. They have been replaced with the warscrolls and
warscroll battalions in Battletome: Beasts of Chaos.
Pages 217, 223 and 225 – Harpies, Slaughterbrute and
Mutalith Vortex Beast, Keywords
Add ‘MONSTERS OF CHAOS’ to the keywords line.
GRAND ALLIANCE: CHAOS
Official Errata, March 2019
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Grand Alliance: Chaos, Errata 2
Page 225 – Mutalith Vortex Beast, Aura of Mutation
Change result 6 to:
‘Spawnchange: The target unit suffers D6 mortal wounds.
If at least one model is slain by these mortal wounds, set
up a Chaos Spawn within 3" of the target unit and add
it to your army.’
Note that this errata also affects the Mutalith Vortex
Beast of Tzeentch.
Pages 236-299 – Warscrolls and Warscroll Battalions
These warscrolls and warscroll battalions are no longer
used. They have been replaced with the warscrolls and
warscroll battalions in Battletome: Skaven.
Pages 300-303 – The Rules
These rules are no longer used. Use the most recent
core rules instead.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Grand Alliance: Chaos, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Grand Alliance: Chaos. It is presented as a series of
questions and answers; the questions are based on ones
that have been asked by players, and the answers are
provided by the rules writing team explain and how the
rules are intended to be used. The commentaries help
provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Q: If I give the Mark of the All-favoured from General’s
Handbook 2018 to a Daemon Prince or Chaos Lord, does a
Daemon Prince get all four Immortal Champion abilities or a
Chaos Lord get all four Mark of Chaos abilities?
A: No.
Q: When you roll a 1 for a Clan Skryre weapon team, it suffers
mortal wounds. Does it still make the attack that triggered
the roll?
A: Only if the mortal wounds didn’t slay the
weapon team.
Q: Verminlords don’t have the Skaven keyword. Is
this intended?
A: Yes.
Q: Is it correct that Skavenslaves have 2 attacks with
Rusty Blades?
A: Yes.
Q: For skaven, if I use a Gautfyre Skorch Enginecoven, can I
use the Warp-grinder Weapon Team’s Tunnel Skulkers ability
and bring an additional unit – for example Stormvermin
– along?
A: No.
Q: Can I use Warpstone Sparks from the General’s
Handbook to increase the number of mortal wounds inflicted
by a Lightning Cannon or Warpfire Thrower Team?
A: No.
GRAND ALLIANCE: CHAOS
Designers’ Commentary, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Beasts of Chaos, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome: Beasts of
Chaos. The errata are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Regional update’, this means it has had a local update,
only in that language, to clarify a translation issue or
other minor correction.
Page 66 – Savage Dominion
Change the rule to:
‘Savage Dominion has a casting value of 5. If successfully
cast, pick an enemy Monster unit that is a single model
within 18" of the caster and visible to them, and roll
2D6. If the roll is equal to or greater than that model’s
Bravery characteristic, you can move it 3" towards the
closest other model. You can then pick 1 other unit
within 1" of that Monster and roll a number of dice
equal to the Monster’s Wounds characteristic. For each
4+, that unit suffers 1 mortal wound.’
Page 82 – Followers of the Brass Bull
Change to:
‘Units from this battalion gain the Khorne keyword. In
addition, this warscroll battalion is part of the Khorne
faction and the Beasts of Chaos faction.’
Page 83 – Covens of the Changer
Change to:
‘Units from this battalion gain the Tzeentch keyword.
In addition, this warscroll battalion is part of the
Tzeentch faction and the Beasts of Chaos faction.’
Page 84 – Vectors of the Plague God
Change to:
‘Units from this battalion gain the Nurgle keyword. In
addition, this warscroll battalion is part of the Nurgle
faction and the Beasts of Chaos faction.’
Page 85 – Marked by the Decadent Fiend
Change to:
‘Units from this battalion gain the Slaanesh keyword.
In addition, this warscroll battalion is part of the
Slaanesh faction and the Beasts of Chaos faction.’
BATTLETOME: BEASTS OF CHAOS
Official Errata, October 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Beasts of Chaos, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Beasts of Chaos. It is presented as a series of
questions and answers; the questions are based on ones
that have been asked by players, and the answers are
provided by the rules writing team and explain how the
rules are intended to be used. The commentaries help
provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the stated date has a
note, e.g. ‘Regional update’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Q: Does the Herdstone Shard affect the Ghorgon’s Ravenous
Bloodgreed ability?
A: No. It only affects the Bloodgreed ability.
Q: Can Brass Despoilers, Phantasmagoria of Fate, Pestilent
Throng and Depraved Drove be used as part of a Chaos army
that owes allegiance to a Chaos God? For example, can I take a
Brass Despoilers battalion as part of a Khorne army?
A: Yes.
Q: Can a Hero from a Beasts of Chaos warscroll battalion
that is part of a Chaos army that owes its allegiance to a Chaos
God be given any spells/artefacts/etc. from that army’s set of
allegiance abilities?
A: Yes, as long as no other restrictions apply.
Q. With the Great Bray-Shaman’s Devolve spell, does the
opponent have to move all of the models in the unit?
A: Yes. Note that each model is moved one at a time.
Q: Does the Dragon Ogor Shaggoth’s Beneath the Tempest
ability stack? For example, if you have three Shaggoths on the
table and you tie for priority, can you make three 4+ rolls to
heal D3 wounds for each Thunderscorn unit?
A: No.
Q: I would like some clarification on how the Jabberslythe’s
Spurting Bile Blood ability is intended to work, specifically
whether ‘overkill’ damage triggers dice rolls to test for mortal
wounds. For example, if my Jabberslythe suffers 12 wounds
from a single unit’s melee weapon(s), do I roll 12 dice to test
for mortal wounds even though the Jabberslythe has a Wounds
characteristic of 10?
A: The Spurting Bile Blood ability triggers when a
wound is allocated. As wounds are allocated one at a
time until the model is slain, any ‘overkill’ will not cause
the ability to be triggered. See page 7 of the core rules,
‘Allocating Wounds’.
Q. With the Ravening Direflock’s Black-souled Cowardice
ability, what happens if it is impossible to place the models due
to enemy models?
A: The endless spell is dispelled. Note that you must set
up the Ravening Direflock if it is possible to do so.
Q: If a Wildfire Taurus’ Whirlwind of Destruction ability forces
an Idoneth Deepkin unit to fight at the end of the next combat
phase, but the High Tide battle trait is in effect, does the unit
fight at the start or the end of the combat phase?
A: If two abilities that apply to a unit are contradictory
and cannot both be applied, the one that was applied
second takes precedence. In this case, that means the
Idoneth Deepkin unit would fight at the end of the
combat phase. Note this only occurs when it impossible
to use both abilities. For example, if one ability gave a
unit a hit modifier of +1 and another ability gave the
same unit a hit modifier of -1, both would be applied
(and effectively cancel each other out).
Q: Does the note in the Pitched Battle profile for Tzaangors in
the Beasts of Chaos battletome mean that they can only ever be
Battleline if they are included in a Beasts of Chaos army with a
Tzaangor Shaman as their general?
A: No. Tzaangors are only not Battleline units when they
are taken as part of a Beasts of Chaos army that does not
have a Tzaangor Shaman as its general.
BATTLETOME: BEASTS OF CHAOS
Designers’ Commentary, October 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Everchosen, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome:
Everchosen. The errata are updated regularly; when
changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Page 97 – Archaon, Warlord Without Equal
Change the rules text to:
‘You can use this command ability in your hero phase,
if Archaon is your general and is on the battlefield. If
you do so, all other Chaos Heroes in your army can use
1 command ability that is on their warscroll and which
can be used in the hero phase without a command point
being spent.’
Pages 101, 103 – Gaunt Summoner of Tzeentch
Change the title of this warscroll and its description to
‘Gaunt Summoner on Disc of Tzeentch.’
Page 101 – Gaunt Summoner of Tzeentch, Book of
Profane Secrets
Change to:
‘Book of Profane Secrets: Whispering fell incantations,
a Gaunt Summoner can temporarily divert the path of a
Realmgate, allowing malefic Chaos entities to manifest on
the battlefield.
Once per battle, at the end of your movement phase,
if this model is within 9" of a Realmgate it can use its
Book of Profane Secrets. If it does so, you can summon
1 unit from the list below to the battlefield, and add it to
your army. The summoned unit must be set up wholly
within 9" of a this model and wholly within 9" of the
Realmgate, and more than 9" from any enemy units.
Choose a unit from the following list:
• 10 Pink Horrors
• 10 Bloodletters
• 10 Plaguebearers
• 10 Daemonettes’
Page 108 – Archaon’s Grand Host, Daemonic Pacts
Change the rules text to:
‘At the end of your movement phase, if Archaon is
your general and on the battlefield, you can roll a
dice. If you do so, on a 5+ you can summon one of the
following units to the battlefield: 10 Plaguebearers; 10
Daemonettes; 10 Bloodletters; or 5 Pink Horrors. The
summoned unit is added to your army, and must be set
up wholly within 12" of Archaon and more than 9"
from any enemy units.’
Page 108 – Archaon’s Grand Host, Dark Command
Change the rules text to:
‘Once per game, at the start of a combat phase, units
from this battalion wholly within 18" of Archaon and
within 3" of an enemy unit can pile in and then attack
with all of the melee weapons they are armed with.
They can be selected to fight normally later in the same
combat phase.’
Pages 109-112 – The Rules
These rules are no longer used. Use the most recent
core rules instead.
BATTLETOME: EVERCHOSEN
Official Errata, July 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Everchosen, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Everchosen. It is presented as a series of
questions and answers; the questions are based on ones
that have been asked by players, and the answers are
provided by the rules writing team explain and how the
rules are intended to be used. The commentaries help
provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Q: Can I take Archaon and Varanguard as part of a
Bloodmarked Warband?
A: You can take Archaon but not the Varanguard.
Q: Can the battalions in this book be used in Khorne, Nurgle,
Slaanesh or Tzeentch armies?
A: Yes, but the battalion and all of the units in it would
be allies.
BATTLETOME: EVERCHOSEN
Designers’ Commentary, July 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Blades of Khorne, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome: Blades of
Khorne. The errata are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Page 79 – Battle Traits, Blood for the Blood God!
Change the first sentence of the last paragraph to:
‘Unless stated otherwise in the rule for a reward, Blood
Tithe points can be expended at the start of either
player’s hero phase, but only once per phase.’
Page 79 – Battle Traits
Add the following battle trait:
‘Summon Daemons of Khorne: As the blood of battle flows
and the skulls of enemies are taken in tribute, the daemons of
Khorne go forth into the Mortal Realms in a tide of slaughter,
ferocity and seething rage.
You can summon units of Khorne Daemons to the
battlefield by expending Blood Tithe points instead of
choosing a reward from the Blood Tithe table.
If you have 2 or more Blood Tithe points at the end of
your movement phase, you can summon one or more
units from the list below onto the battlefield, and add
them to your army. Each unit you summon costs a
number of Blood Tithe points, as shown on the list, and
you can only summon a unit if you have enough Blood
Tithe points to pay its cost. If you summon any units in
this manner, your Blood Tithe points total is reset to
zero immediately after the last unit has been set up (you
cannot save any Blood Tithe points you did not use).
Summoned units must be set up wholly within 12" of
a friendly Khorne Hero and more than 9" from any
enemy units.
The following units can be summoned to your army:’
Add the following table:
BLADES OF KHORNE COST
UNIT
1 Wrath of Khorne Bloodthirster 8
1 Bloodthirster of Insensate Rage 8
1 Bloodthirster of Unfettered Fury 8
20 Bloodletters 7
15 Bloodletters 6
10 Flesh Hounds 6
3 Bloodcrushers 5
1 Skull Cannon 5
10 Bloodletters 4
1 Blood Throne 4
5 Flesh Hounds 3
1 Skullmaster, Herald of Khorne 3
5 Bloodletters 2
1 Bloodmaster, Herald of Khorne 2
Page 79 – Blood Tithe Table, Bloody Exemplar
Change the rules text to:
‘Select a friendly Khorne Hero that has a command
ability on their warscroll and immediately use that
command ability without spending a command point to
do so.’
Page 79 – Blood Tithe Table, Murderlust
Change the rules text to:
‘Select a Khorne unit from your army; that unit can
move as if it were the movement phase. If it is within
12" of an enemy model, it can either move as if it
were the movement phase or charge as if it were the
charge phase.’
Page 79 – Blood Tithe Table, Apoplectic Frenzy
Change the rules text to:
‘Select a Khorne unit from your army that is within 3"
of an enemy model; that unit can immediately pile in
and attack as if it were the combat phase.’
Page 79 – Blood Tithe Table, Blood Pact
Change the rules text to:
‘Pick a Khorne Daemon unit from the summoning list
below and add it to your army. Set up the unit anywhere
on the battlefield that is more than 9" from any enemy
units. It cannot move in the following movement phase.’
BATTLETOME: BLADES OF KHORNE
Official Errata, July 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Blades of Khorne, Errata 2
Page 80 – Command Traits, Khorne Daemon,
Devastating Blow
Change the rules text to:
‘Each time you roll a wound roll of 6 or more for your
general (but not for attacks made by their mount), that
attack inflicts a number of mortal wounds equal to its
Damage characteristic instead of its normal damage (do
not make a save roll).’
Page 81 – Artefacts of Power
Replace the rules introduction for artefacts of power
with the following:
‘If a Khorne army includes any Heroes, one may bear
one artefact of power from one of the following tables:
Murderous Artefacts, Banners of Khorne, Trophies of
War, Daemonic Weapons, or Daemonic Adornments.’
Page 83 – Daemonic Gifts
Delete the Daemonic Gifts title, introduction and
rules paragraphs (Daemonic Gifts are now artefacts
of power).
Page 102 – Murderhost, Insatiable Bloodlust
Change the rules text to:
‘After set-up, but before the battle begins, roll 2D6.
Each unit from this battalion within 8" of the battalion’s
Bloodletter Hero and more than 3" from any enemy
units can move a distance in inches equal to the roll.
The units cannot run, or move within 3" of an enemy
unit, and the distance to the Hero must be measured
before any of the moves are made. If the Murderhost
contained the maximum number of units at the start of
the battle, you can use this ability again at the start of
each of your hero phases as well as after set-up.’
Page 104 – Council of Blood, Fierce Rivals
Change the rules text to:
‘In each of your hero phases, pick one Bloodthirster
from the Council of Blood that is within 3" of an enemy
unit to pile in and make attacks. If that Bloodthirster
kills an enemy Hero or Monster, or slays the last model
in an enemy unit, you can immediately pick another
Bloodthirster from the Council of Blood that is
within 3" of an enemy unit to pile in and make attacks
with. You can continue to do this until either each
model in the battalion has attacked once in this manner,
or one of them fails to slay an enemy Hero or Monster,
or slay the last model in an enemy unit.’
Page 104 – Council of Blood, Lords of Battle
Change the rules text to:
‘Each Bloodthirster from a Council of Blood can use
the command ability on its warscroll once in each of
your hero phases without spending a command point to
do so.’
Page 105 – Blood Hunt, Blood Mark
Change the rules text to:
‘After set-up, but before the battle begins, pick an enemy
Hero to receive Khorne’s blood mark. At the start of
each of your hero phases, you can roll two dice for each
unit from the Blood Hunt that is more than 3" from any
enemy models. You can then move the unit being rolled
for a distance up to the result of the roll (it cannot run,
or end the move within 3" of an enemy model). The unit
must finish the move closer to the enemy model with the
blood mark.’
Page 108 – Charnel Host, Daemon Commander
Change the last sentence of the rules text to:
‘You can use the Rejoice in the Slaughter command
ability of the Charnel Host’s Bloodthirster of Unfettered
Fury once in each of your hero phases without spending
a command point to do so.’
Page 108 – Charnel Host, Butchers of Khorne
Change the rules text to:
‘In each of your hero phases, you can pile in and attack
with any units from a Charnel Host that are within 3"
of an enemy model and within 8" of their battalion’s
Bloodthirster of Unfettered Fury.’
Page 110 – The Reapers of Vengeance, Khorne’s
Vengeance Made Manifest
Change the rules text to:
‘This ability replaces the Blood Mark ability of any
Blood Hunts in this battalion and applies to all of the
units from the Reapers of Vengeance. After set-up, but
before the battle begins, pick D3 enemy units to receive
Khorne’s blood mark (they do not have to be Heroes).
At the start of each of your hero phases, you can roll two
dice for each unit from the Reapers of Vengeance that
is more than 3" from any enemy models. You can then
move the unit being rolled for a distance up to the result
of the roll (it cannot run, or end the move within 3" of
an enemy model). The unit must finish the move closer
to an enemy unit with the blood mark.’
Page 111 – The Bloodlords, Exalted Loci of Khorne
Change the rules text to:
‘If any units of Bloodletters and/or Bloodcrushers from
the Bloodlords are within 3" of an enemy model and
within 8" of any of the battalion’s Bloodletter Heroes
at the start of your hero phase, they can immediately
pile in and each model in the unit can make a single
attack with one of their melee weapons.’
Page 116 – Skulltake, Reaping Strikes
Change the rules text to:
‘Skullreapers from a Skulltake are in a frenzied fury
whilst they are within 12" of the battalion’s Bloodstoker.
If the wound roll for a Skullreaper in a frenzied fury is
6 or more, add 1 to the Damage characteristic of the
weapon they are using for that attack. If the Skulltake
contained the maximum number of units at the start of
the battle, then this ability applies to all Skulltake units
whilst they are within 12" of the Bloodstoker.’
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Blades of Khorne, Errata 3
Page 122 – The Goretide, Aqshy’s Bane
Change the rules text to:
‘In each of your hero phases, if the Goretide’s Mighty
Lord of Khorne is within 8" of any enemy models he can
pile in up to 8" and attack. If he does so, you can reroll all failed hit rolls for the Goretide’s Mighty Lord of
Khorne, including any attacks made with the Blood-dark
Claws of his ferocious Flesh Hound.’
Pages 124-147 – Warscrolls
Remove the following summoning spells:
• Summon Bloodthirster of Fury
• Summon Bloodthirster of Rage
• Summon Bloodthirster of Wrath
• Summon Flesh Hounds
• Summon Skullmaster
• Summon Bloodmaster
• Summon Bloodletters
• Summon Bloodcrushers
• Summon Skull Cannon
• Summon Blood Throne
Page 130 – Karanak, Call of the Hunt
Change the rules text to:
‘Once per game, if Karanak is within 8" of his quarry
during the hero phase, you can summon a unit of 5
Flesh Hounds to the battlefield, and add it to your army.
The summoned unit must be set up wholly within 8"
of Karanak and more than 9" from any enemy units.
The summoned unit cannot move in the following
movement phase.’
Page 130 – Karanak, Prey of the Blood God
Change the rules text to:
‘After armies are set up, but before the first battle round
begins, you can pick 1 enemy Hero to be Karanak’s
quarry. You can re-roll hit and wound rolls for attacks
made by Karanak that target the quarry.’
Page 133 – Bloodletters, Gore-drenched Icon
Change the rules text to:
‘If the unmodified roll for a battleshock test for a unit
that includes any Gore-drenched Icons is 1, you can add
D6 models to that unit, and no models from that unit
will flee in that battleshock phase.’
Page 134 – Bloodcrushers, Icon Bearer
Change the last two sentences of the rules text to:
‘If the unmodified roll for a battleshock test for a unit
that includes any Icon Bearers is 1, you can add 1 model
to that unit, and no models from that unit will flee in
that battleshock phase.’
Page 139 – Lord of Khorne on Juggernaut,
Blood Stampede
Add:
‘The same unit cannot be chosen to benefit from
this command ability more than once in the same
hero phase.’
Page 137 – Bloodsecrator, Portal of Skulls, Rage
of Khorne
Change to:
‘Rage of Khorne: Add 1 to the Attacks characteristic for
melee weapons used by friendly Khorne units while
they are within 18" of any models with this ability. In
addition, do not take battleshock tests for friendly
Khorne units while they are within 18" of any models
with this ability.’
Page 141 – Aspiring Deathbringer (both warscrolls),
Slaughter Incarnate
Change to:
‘You can use this command ability at the start of the
combat phase. If you do so, pick a friendly model with
this command ability. Until the end of that phase,
add 1 to the Attacks characteristic of melee weapons
used by friendly Khorne Mortal units while they
are wholly within 10" of any friendly models using this
command ability.’
Page 141 – Aspiring Deathbringer with Goreaxe and
Skullhammer, Bane of Cowards
Change the last sentence to:
‘If any enemy models flee within 8" of this Aspiring
Deathbringer in the battleshock phase, if this model is
within 3" of an enemy model at the end of that phase,
this model can pile in and attack as if it were the
combat phase.’
Pages 148-151 – The Rules
These rules are no longer used. Use the most recent
core rules instead.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Blades of Khorne, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Blades of Khorne. It is presented as a series of
questions and answers; the questions are based on ones
that have been asked by players, and the answers are
provided by the rules writing team explain and how the
rules are intended to be used. The commentaries help
provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will
be highlighted in magenta. Where the stated date has
a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Q: When can I expend Blood Tithe points in order to use a
reward in the hero phase?
A: Blood Tithe points must be expended before your
opponent uses any start-of-turn abilities in your own
hero phase, or after your opponent has used any start-ofturn abilities in your opponent’s hero phase.
Q: Does the unbinding effect of The Brazen Rune’s automatic
unbinding ability have an unlimited range?
A: Yes.
Q: If I use the same Blood Blessing more than once on the same
unit, are the effects cumulative?
A: Yes.
Q: When Skarbrand becomes Incandescent because he was
not able to fight in the last battle round, does he use the
Incandescent row of the damage table to determine Slaughter’s
attacks and Carnage’s total carnage rolls?
A: Yes.
Q: Can the 8 wounds inflicted by Skarbrand’s Total Carnage
ability be modified in any way, for example by a Stonehorn’s
Stone Skeleton ability? Can the wounds be inflicted on an
unwounded model in a unit that already has a model in it
which has 1 or more wounds?
A: No to both questions.
Q: Can the Bloodthirster of Unfettered Fury’s Drawn to the
Kill ability be used to move a model that could not otherwise be
moved? Because it was atop a Balewind Vortex, for example.
A: No.
Q: Can the Bloodstoker’s Whipped to Fury ability be used to
modify a run roll and a charge roll in the same turn?
A: Yes.
Q: If I use the Whipped to Fury ability from two Bloodstokers on
the same unit, do I add 6" to its run and charge rolls?
A: No.
Q: Does the attack sequence end if I roll a 6 or more with a
weapon that has the Decapitating Strike ability?
A: Yes.
Q: Does Bloody Exemplar only allow me to use a command
ability that can be used in the hero phase (without having to
spend a command point to use it)?
A: Yes.
BATTLETOME: BLADES OF KHORNE
Designers’ Commentary, July 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Maggotkin of Nurgle, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome:
Maggotkin of Nurgle. The errata are updated regularly;
when changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Page 64 – Daemonic Boons, The Endless Gift
Change the first sentence of rules text to:
‘At the start of the battleshock phase, roll a dice for each
wound that was allocated to this model that turn and
not negated.’
Page 86 – Rotigus, Deluge of Nurgle
Change the last sentence to:
‘If more than one roll inflicts mortal wounds, you
must pick a different enemy unit to suffer each set of
mortal wounds.’
Pages 86, 87, 94, 95, 96 and 97 – Damage Tables
Change ‘Wounds Allocated’ to ‘Wounds Suffered’.
Page 87 – Great Unclean One, Grandfather’s Joy
Add the following sentence to the end of the rule:
‘You cannot pick the same unit to benefit from this
command ability more than once per hero phase.’
Page 88 – Poxbringer, Herald of Nurgle
Add ‘WIZARD’ to the keywords line.
Page 94 – The Glottkin, Lords of Nurgle
Add the following sentence to the end of the rule:
‘You cannot use this command ability more than once
per hero phase.’
Page 98 – Lord of Afflictions, Spearhead of Contagion
Add:
‘The same unit cannot benefit from this command
ability more than once in the same phase.’
Page 99 – Harbinger of Decay, Morbid Vigour
Add:
‘The same unit cannot benefit from this command
ability more than once in the same phase.’
Page 100 – Lord of Blights, Plague of Flies
Add:
‘The same unit cannot benefit from this command
ability more than once in the same phase.’
BATTLETOME: MAGGOTKIN OF NURGLE
Official Errata, July 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Maggotkin of Nurgle, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Maggotkin of Nurgle. It is presented as a series
of questions and answers; the questions are based on
ones that have been asked by players, and the answers
are provided by the rules writing team explain and how
the rules are intended to be used. The commentaries
help provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Q: What happens if the Blighted Weapons ability is combined
with the Blades of Putrefaction spell? Do I inflict D6 mortal
wounds on a hit roll of 6+?
A: No. The 6+ roll simply triggers both effects –
therefore you inflict D6 hits (roll to wound and save
normally), and 1 mortal wound in addition to any
other damage.
Q: Can a Lord of Blights shoot with the Munificent Bounty
Death’s Head?
A: No.
Q: When I use Gutrot Spume’s Master of the Slime Fleet ability
and include a unit of Putrid Blightkings with him, does this
count as setting up one unit or two units?
A: It counts as a single set up.
BATTLETOME: MAGGOTKIN OF NURGLE
Designers’ Commentary, June 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Skaven, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome: Skaven.
The errata are updated regularly; when changes are
made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Page 99 – Thanquol on Boneripper, Mount
Add the following:
‘He also attacks with Crushing Blows.’
Warscroll cards – Verminlord Corruptor, Plaguereapers
Change the Rend characteristic of Plaguereapers to ‘-’ to
match the warscroll in the battletome.
BATTLETOME: SKAVEN
Official Errata, March 2019
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Skaven, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Skaven. It is presented as a series of questions
and answers; the questions are based on ones that have
been asked by players, and the answers are provided by
the rules writing team explain and how the rules are
intended to be used. The commentaries help provide a
default setting for your games, but players should always
feel free to discuss the rules before a game, and change
things as they see fit if they both want to do so (changes
like this are usually referred to as ‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will
be highlighted in magenta. Where the stated date has
a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Q: The Master of Magic command trait for Masterclan
Heroes allows me to add 1 to a casting, dispelling or
unbinding roll once in each hero phase. Do I have to decide
whether to use the modifier before I make the roll?
A: No. Modifiers are applied after the roll has been
made, and unless noted otherwise the decision as to
whether to apply them happens at that time.
Q: If Thanquol on Boneripper has more than 1 Warpfire
Projector, can he make 1 attack with each one? For example, if
he had 4, would he be able to make 4 Warpfire Projectors attacks
and roll 4 dice for each model in the target unit each time?
A: No.
Q: Thanquol’s Warpstone Addiction ability says that the roll
cannot be re-rolled or modified. Can you re-roll or modify the
2D6 roll once you have removed one of the three dice?
A: No.
Q: Are Verminlords allowed to take a spell from either of the
Skaventide spell lores?
A: No.
Q: Does the Magical Backlash result for a Screaming Bell inflict
D3 mortal wounds on the Screaming Bell too?
A: Yes.
Q: If I roll the ‘A Stirring Beyond the Veil’ result on the Peal of
Doom table for a Grey Seer on Screaming Bell, does this stop any
other Screaming Bells from summoning a Verminlord if they
roll the same result?
A: No, it only applies to the model that the roll was
being made for.
Q: The Arch-Warlock’s Warpstorm spell can inflict D3xD6
mortal wounds on the Arch-Warlock. How exactly are these
mortal wounds worked out?
A: Roll a D3 and then roll a D6. Multiply the two rolls
together and apply the result as mortal wounds to the
Arch-Warlock. For example, if you rolled a 2 on the D3
and a 3 on the D6, the Arch-Warlock would suffer 2x3=6
mortal wounds.
Q: The Clawlord’s Cornered Fury ability allows you to add
the number of wounds allocated to the model to its Attacks
characteristic. Is this the number of wounds currently allocated
to the Clawlord, or can it include any wounds that were
allocated even if they have been negated or healed?
A: It is the number of wounds currently allocated to
the Clawlord.
Q: I found the ‘More-more Warplead!’ rule for the Ratling
Gun rather confusing. Can you explain in layman’s terms how
it works?
A: Certainly. Normally when you fire a Ratling Gun it
makes 2D6 attacks. The ‘More-more Warplead!’ rule
allows you to double the number of attacks, as long as
you say you wish to do so before the dice roll is made.
However, if you say that you will double the number of
attacks and the dice roll is a double (e.g. two 1s, two 2s,
etc.), then after all of the attacks have been made and
you have inflicted any damage that they caused, the
attacking model is slain.
Q: On the Pitched Battle Profiles page, several entries have
notes that say units are Battleline if all other units belong to
a specific faction. For example, Giant Rats can be Battleline
if the general is Masterclan or Clans Moulder, and all
other units are Clans Moulder. Are allied units counted for
this restriction?
A: No, the restriction only applies to the units in the
Skaventide army, not to allied units.
BATTLETOME: SKAVEN
Designers’ Commentary, March 2019
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Skaven, Designers’ Commentary 2
Q: Can Skaven units be taken as allies for a Skaventide army?
A: No.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Disciples of Tzeentch, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome:
Disciples of Tzeentch. The errata are updated regularly;
when changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Page 73 – Spell Lores
Change to:
‘Spell Lores: The champions of Tzeentch have ever
been feared for their mastery of the sorcerous arts.
Wizards from your army gain one spell from one of two
spell lores – the Lore of Fate or the Lore of Change –
depending on whether they are a mortal sorcerer or one
of Tzeentch’s daemons.’
Page 74 – Battle Traits, Masters of Destiny
Change the Damage roll bullet point to:
‘• Damage roll (e.g. any roll that determines a Damage
characteristic, but not any roll that determines
the number of mortal wounds inflicted by a spell
or ability)’
Page 74 – Battle Traits
Add the following battle trait:
‘Summon Daemons of Tzeentch: The machinations of
Tzeentch are unimaginably complex. To challenge the fractal
plans of the Architect of Fate is to stand before the folding of
reality and face strange daemons born from chaotic sorcery itself.
You can summon units of Tzeentch Daemons to the
battlefield by expending Fate Points. You receive 1 Fate
Point each time a casting roll is successful, and the
spell is not unbound. Note that you receive Fate Points
whenever a spell is cast, be it by friend or foe – Tzeentch
cares not from whence the magic flows!
If you have 10 or more Fate Points at the end of your
movement phase, you can summon one or more units
from the list below onto the battlefield, and add them
to your army. Each unit you summon costs a number
of Fate Points, as shown on the list, and you can only
summon a unit if you have enough Fate Points to pay
its cost.
Summoned units must be set up wholly within 12" of a
friendly Tzeentch Hero and more than 9" from any
enemy units. Subtract the cost of the summoned unit
from the number of Fate Points you have immediately
after the summoned unit has been set up.
The following units can be summoned to your army:’
Add the following table:
DISCIPLES OF TZEENTCH COST
UNIT
1 Lord of Change 36
1 Herald of Tzeentch on
Burning Chariot 24
10 Pink Horrors of Tzeentch 20
1 Burning Chariot of Tzeentch 18
3 Flamers of Tzeentch 18
1 Exalted Flamer of Tzeentch 12
1 Herald of Tzeentch 12
1 Herald of Tzeentch on Disc 12
10 Blue Horrors of Tzeentch 10
10 Brimstone Horrors of Tzeentch 10
3 Screamers of Tzeentch 10
Pages 75-136 – Chaos Spawn
Change all references to ‘Chaos Spawn’ to ‘Tzeentch
Chaos Spawn’ (including the name of the warscroll on
page 131).
Page 75 – Tzeentch Arcanites, Tzeentch Daemons and
Tzeentch Mortals, Magical Supremacy
Change to:
‘Add 12" to the range at which your general can attempt
to unbind spells.’
Page 75 – Tzeentch Arcanites, Boundless Mutation
Change the last sentence to:
‘On a roll of 1, your general suffers 1 mortal wound; if
this slays the general, before you remove the general’s
model, you can add a Tzeentch Chaos Spawn to your
army and set it up within 1" of your general.’
BATTLETOME: DISCIPLES OF TZEENTCH
Official Errata, July 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Disciples of Tzeentch, Errata 2
Page 75 – Tzeentch Arcanites, Cult Demagogue
Change to:
‘Cult Demagogue: Add 2 to the Bravery characteristic
of friendly Tzeentch Arcanite units whilst they are
within 9" of the general.’
Page 76 – Artefacts of Power
Replace the rules introduction for artefacts of power
with the following:
‘If a Tzeentch army includes any Heroes, one may bear
one artefact of power from one of the following tables:
Treasures of the Cults, Fated Artefacts, Daemonic
Weapons or Daemonic Powers.’
Page 76 – Treasures of the Cults, Ambition’s End
Change the last two sentences to:
‘On a roll of 5 or more, the Hero suffers 1 mortal
wound and, if they are a Wizard, they also forget a
randomly selected spell that they know.’
Page 76 – Treasures of the Cults, Windthief Charm
Change the rules text to:
‘Once per battle, at the start of your movement phase,
you can use the Windthief Charm. If you do, for that
movement phase the bearer can fly and you can double
their Move characteristic.’
Page 77 – Fated Artefacts, Changeblade
Change the last two sentences to:
‘Whenever a Hero is slain by a wound inflicted by this
weapon, before you remove the hero’s model, you can
add a Tzeentch Chaos Spawn to your army and set it up
within 1" of the hero’s model.’
Page 77 – Fated Artefacts, Nexus Staff
Change the last two sentences to:
‘Whenever a Hero is slain by a wound inflicted by this
weapon, roll a dice for each enemy unit that is within 9"
of the slain model. On a roll of 4 or more the unit being
rolled for suffers D3 mortal wounds.’
Page 77 – Fated Artefacts, Paradoxical Shield
Change the rules text to:
‘Re-roll successful save rolls for the bearer. In addition,
add 2 to the save rolls for the bearer (after any re-rolls
have been taken).’
Page 78 – Daemonic Gifts
Delete the Daemonic Gifts title, introduction and
rules paragraphs (Daemonic Gifts are now artefacts
of power).
Page 78 – Daemonic Weapons, Warpfire Blade
Change the last sentence to:
‘Wound rolls of 6 or more made for this weapon cause a
mortal wound in addition to their normal damage.’
Page 79 – Daemonic Powers, Cursed Ichor
Change the rules text to:
‘Roll a dice at the end of the combat phase if any
wounds were allocated to this daemon in the combat
phase (even if this daemon was slain). On a roll of 2 or
more, one enemy unit that attacked this daemon in that
combat phase suffers 1 mortal wound. If several enemy
units attacked this daemon, randomly select the unit
that suffers the mortal wound.’
Page 79 – Daemonic Powers. Mark of the Conjurer
Change the rules text to:
‘If the casting roll for this daemon is a double, and is
successful and not unbound, you receive 2 Fate Points
instead of 1.’
Page 83 – Treason of Tzeentch
Change the rules text to:
‘Treason of Tzeentch has a casting value of 5. If
successfully cast, pick an enemy unit with 2 or more
models that is within 18" of the caster and which is
visible to them. Roll a dice for each model in the unit
you picked. It suffers 1 mortal wound for each dice roll
of 6 or more. If, after any of the mortal wounds caused
by this spell are allocated, only one model remains in
the unit, any remaining mortal wounds caused by this
spell are negated and have no effect.’
Page 83 – Unchecked Mutation
Change the last sentence to:
‘That unit suffers D3 mortal wounds. After the mortal
wounds have been allocated, roll a dice. On a roll of 5 or
more, the unit suffers 1 more mortal wound. If the unit
suffers 1 more mortal wound, roll a dice after the mortal
wound has been allocated; on a roll of 5 or more the
unit suffers 1 more mortal wound, and so on until you
fail to roll a 5 or more.’
Page 83 – Tzeentch’s Firestorm
Change the name of the spell to ‘Tzeentch’s Inferno.’
Page 97 – Multitudinous Host, Horrors Without Number
Change the rules text to:
‘In each of your hero phases, add D3 models to
each unit of Pink Horrors and/or Blue Horrors, and
add 1 model to each unit of Brimstone Horrors in
this battalion.’
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Disciples of Tzeentch, Errata 3
Page 99 – Changehost, Deceive and Dismay
Change the rules text to:
‘At the start of each of your hero phases, you may pick
a pair of units from this battalion that are within 27"
of the battalion’s Lord of Change to swap places. To do
so, take one model from each unit, and have them swap
places on the battlefield. Then, remove all of the other
models from the two units, and set them back up within
9" of the model from their unit that first swapped places.
If a Changehost has 9 or more units at the start of your
hero phase, you can pick two different pairs of units to
swap places rather than only one. If the Changehost has
18 or more units, then you can pick three different pairs
of units to swap places. Each unit can only move this way
once in a hero phase.’
Page 102 – The Eternal Conflagration, Pawns of the
Radiant Lord
Change the last sentence to:
‘When the Lord of Change that must be taken in this
battalion successfully casts an Arcane Bolt or Mystic
Shield spell, you can measure the range and visibility for
the spell from a Flamer from this battalion instead of
the caster.’
Page 103 – Scintillating Simulacra
Add the following:
‘For the purposes of this spell, whether a roll is a success
or a failure is determined after re-rolls and modifiers
have been applied.’
Page 105 – Arcanite Cabal, Cabal of Sorcerers
Change the last sentence to:
‘Each Wizard from an Arcanite Cabal that is within
9" of at least two other Wizards from the same
battalion in your hero phase can attempt to cast one
additional spell.’
Page 109 – Tzaangor Coven, Aspirant Gor-kin
Change the first sentence to:
‘If the unit of Tzaangors from a Tzaangor Coven
is within 3" of an enemy unit and within 9" of the
battalion’s unit of Tzaangor Enlightened or Tzaangor
Skyfires at the start of your hero phase, it can pile in and
attack as if it were the combat phase.’
Pages 112-131 – Warscrolls
Remove the following summoning spells:
• Summon Lord of Change
• Summon Burning Herald
• Summon Herald on Disc
• Summon Herald of Tzeentch
• Summon Screamers
• Summon Burning Chariot
• Summon Exalted Flamer
• Summon Flamers of Tzeentch
• Summon Pink Horrors
Page 118 – The Changeling, Arch-deceiver
Change to:
‘Arch-deceiver: After set-up is complete, you can remove
the Changeling from the battlefield and set up it up
again in your opponent’s territory, more than 3" from
any enemy units. Enemy units treat it as part of their
own army – they can move within 3" of it but they cannot
target it with spells or attacks, and so on. If it makes
a charge move, attacks, casts or unbinds a spell, or is
within 3" of an enemy Hero at the end of any phase, it is
revealed and this ability no longer has an effect.’
Page 118 – The Changeling, Formless Horror
Change to:
‘Formless Horror: In the combat phase, you can pick a
melee weapon wielded by an enemy model within 3" of
the Changeling, and use that weapon’s Range, Attacks,
To Hit, To Wound, Rend and Damage characteristics
instead of those for the Trickster’s Staff. If a weapon
does not have a value for one or more of these
characteristics (e.g. it is given as ‘✹’ or ‘see below’), it
cannot be picked.’
Page 118 – The Changeling, Magic
Change the last sentence to:
‘Instead of casting a spell that it knows, the Changeling
can attempt to cast one spell known by a Wizard that is
within 9" of it when it attempts to cast the spell.’
Page 119 – Screamers of Tzeentch, Locus of Change
Change to:
‘Subtract 1 from hit rolls for attacks that target this
unit while this unit is wholly within 12" of a friendly
Tzeentch Daemon Hero.’
Page 122 – Pink Horrors of Tzeentch, Icon Bearer
Change the last two sentences to:
‘If the unmodified roll for a battleshock test for a unit
that includes any Icon Bearers is 1, you can add D6
models to that unit, and no models from that unit will
flee in that battleshock phase.’
Page 123 – Blue Horrors of Tzeentch, Split
Change to:
‘Split: When a Pink Horror is slain, its remains split into
two smaller Blue Horrors, each grumbling and snarling in
annoyance. These lesser forms may take petty vengeance on
those responsible before scuttling off, or gather their fellow lesser
daemons to renew the assault twice over.
If a friendly Pink Horror model is slain, you can either
take petty vengeance or receive 2 Blue Horror Points. If
you take petty vengeance, pick an enemy unit within 9"
of the slain Pink Horror and roll a dice. On a 6+ that
enemy unit suffers 1 mortal wound. Any Blue Horror
Points you receive can be used instead of or as well as
Fate Points when you summon a Blue Horrors unit to
the battlefield.’
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Disciples of Tzeentch, Errata
4
Page 123 – Brimstone Horrors of Tzeentch, Split Again
Change to: ‘Split Again: When a Blue Horror is slain they split into two
Brimstone Horrors that burn with the need to wreak havoc.
These lesser forms may take petty vengeance on those responsible
before scuttling off, or gather their fellow lesser daemons to
renew the assault twice over.
If a friendly Blue Horror model is slain, you can either
take petty vengeance or receive 1 Brimstone Horror
Point. If you take petty vengeance, pick an enemy unit
within 9" of the slain Blue Horror and roll a dice.
On a 6+ that enemy unit suffers 1 mortal wound. Any
Brimstone Horror Points you receive can be used
instead of or as well as Fate Points when you summon a
Brimstone Horrors unit to the battlefield.’
Page 125 – Gaunt Summoner of Tzeentch, Book of
Profane Secrets
Change to:
‘Book of Profane Secrets: Whispering fell incantations,
a Gaunt Summoner can temporarily divert the path of a
Realmgate, allowing malefic Chaos entities to manifest on
the battlefield.
Once per battle, at the end of your movement phase,
if this model is within 9" of a Realmgate it can use its
Book of Profane Secrets. If it does so, you can summon
1 unit from the list below to the battlefield, and add it to
your army. The summoned unit must be set up wholly
within 9" of a this model and wholly within 9" of the
Realmgate, and more than 9" from any enemy units.
Choose a unit from the following list:
• 10 Pink Horrors
• 10 Bloodletters
• 10 Plaguebearers
• 10 Daemonettes’
Page 126 – Magister, Bolt of Change
Change the last sentence to:
‘If any models were slain by this spell, before removing
the first slain model you can add a Tzeentch Chaos
Spawn to your army and set it up within 3" of the slain
model’s unit.’
Page 127 – Ogroid Thaumaturge, Fireblast
Change the last sentence to:
‘After the damage has been inflicted, you can set up 1
unit of Brimstone Horrors within 1" of the target; the
number of models set up in the new unit is equal to the
number of mortal wounds inflicted.’
Pages 132-135 – The Rules
These rules are no longer used. Use the most recent
core rules instead.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Disciples of Tzeentch, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Disciples of Tzeentch. It is presented as a series
of questions and answers; the questions are based on
ones that have been asked by players, and the answers
are provided by the rules writing team explain and how
the rules are intended to be used. The commentaries
help provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Q: Can I use a single Destiny Dice for one of the dice in a 2D6
roll? For example, could I use a Destiny Dice for just one of the
dice in a charge roll, or one of the dice in a casting roll, etc.?
A: Yes.
Q: Can I use a Destiny Dice for a re-roll?
A: No. A re-roll is not considered to be a new dice roll,
it is the original dice roll taken again. The Destiny Dice
would therefore need to be used before the first roll
was made.
Q: Most spells in Disciples of Tzeentch refer to ‘visible’ enemy
or friendly units; does the unit need to be visible to the caster, or
just any unit in your army?
A: It must be visible to the caster.
Q: Kairos Fateweaver’s warscroll says you can change the result
of any dice roll to whatever you want. So if you roll 35 dice, can
you change it to 35 6s?
A: You may alter the result of a single (1) dice roll to a
result of your choosing. Just one dice!
Q: Does the Changeling’s Puckish Misdirection modify the
target’s Move characteristic or the distance it can move?
A: It modifies the Move characteristic (before run rolls
are added).
Q: Can the Changeling be used to capture objectives before it has
been revealed?
A: Yes.
Q: If I attempt to cast a spell using the Blue Scribes’ Scrolls
of Sorcery, does this count as my one attempt to cast that spell
that turn?
A: Yes.
Q: Can a Curseling, having unbound an endless spell, use the
Vessel of Chaos ability to attempt to cast that endless spell?
A: Yes.
Q: Do Blue Horror Points and Brimstone Horror Points count
as Fate Points for the purposes of having the 10 Fate Points
needed to summon a unit?
A: Yes.
BATTLETOME: DISCIPLES OF TZEENTCH
Designers’ Commentary, July 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Realm of Chaos: Wrath and Rapture, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Realm of Chaos: Wrath and Rapture. It is presented as a
series of questions and answers; the questions are based
on ones that have been asked by players, and the answers
are provided by the rules writing team explain and how
the rules are intended to be used. The commentaries
help provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the stated date has a
note, e.g. ‘Regional update’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Q: Can you provide an example of how depravity points
are earned?
A: Certainly. In the combat phase, a Keeper of Secrets
inflicts 10 wounds on a unit of Liberators. The
Liberators each have a Wounds characteristic of 2, so
the first wound inflicted on each Liberator generates
1 depravity point (the second wound allocated to each
Liberator does not generate a depravity point, as the
model is slain). This means that the wounds inflicted
by the Keeper of Secrets generate 5 depravity points
in total. Remember that a wound only counts as being
inflicted on a model if it is allocated to the model and
not negated.
REALM OF CHAOS: WRATH AND RAPTURE
Designers’ Commentary, January 2019
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Grand Alliance: Death, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Grand Alliance:
Death. The errata are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Pages 8-84 – Warscrolls
The warscrolls in this book are no longer used. They
have been replaced with the warscrolls in Battletome:
Flesh-eater Courts, Battletome: Legions of Nagash and
Battletome: Nighthaunt.
Pages 85-88 – The Rules
These rules are no longer used. Use the most recent
core rules instead.
GRAND ALLIANCE: DEATH
Official Errata, June 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Flesh-eater Courts, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome: Flesheater Courts. The errata are updated regularly; when
changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Page 55 – Feeding Frenzy
Change the first sentence of the rule to:
‘You can use this command ability in the combat phase
after a friendly Flesh-eater Courts unit has fought for
the first time in that phase and is wholly within 12" of a
friendly Flesh-eater Courts Hero, or wholly within
18" of a friendly Flesh-eater Courts Hero that is
a general.’
Page 57 – Medal of Madness
Change the rule to:
‘Once per battle round, the bearer can use the At
the Double, Forward to Victory or Inspiring Presence
command ability from the core rules as if they were a
general, without a command point being spent.’
Page 61 – Ruler of All He Surveys
Change the second sentence to:
‘In addition, an Abhorrant Ghoul King that is within 1"
of this terrain feature can use the Summon Men-at-arms
command ability without a command point being spent.’
(i.e. Remove the keyword formatting from ‘Abhorrant
Ghoul King’ in the rule; the rule should only affect
models from the Abhorrant Ghoul King warscroll.)
Page 65 – Savage Strike
Change to:
‘This general and their mount fight at the start of the
combat phase, before the players pick any other units
to fight in that combat phase. This general and their
mount cannot fight again in that combat phase unless a
spell or ability allows it to fight more than once.’
Page 86 – Soul Stealer
Add the following:
‘The player whose turn is taking place must pick which
eligible Flesh-eater Courts units are affected.’
BATTLETOME: FLESH-EATER COURTS
Official Errata, March 2019
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Flesh-eater Courts, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Flesh-eater Courts. It is presented as a series of
questions and answers; the questions are based on ones
that have been asked by players, and the answers are
provided by the rules writing team explain and how the
rules are intended to be used. The commentaries help
provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will
be highlighted in magenta. Where the stated date has
a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Q: Can I duplicate mount traits for my Flesh-eater Courts army
if I can take more than one?
A: Yes.
Q: Can a Ghoul King on Terrorgheist or Zombie Dragon use
the Ruler of All He Surveys scenery rule from the Charnel
Throne warscroll?
A: No.
Q: Can any number of Abhorrant Archregents and Abhorrant
Ghoul Kings use the Ruler of All He Surveys scenery rule for a
single Charnel Throne on the same turn?
A: Yes.
Q: If my general has the Savage Strike command trait, does it
fight before Idoneth Deepkin units using the High Tide ability
from the Tides of Death battle trait?
A: Yes. The High Tide ability does not say Idoneth units
fight ‘at the start of the combat phase’; therefore, they
fight after anything that is noted as fighting ‘at the start
of the combat phase’.
Q: When I use a Muster ability for a Courtier, do I roll
separately for each Courtier? And do I only roll 6 dice for
each Courtier, no matter how many Courtiers are on
the battlefield?
A: Yes to both questions. For example, if you had three
Courtiers, you would pick one Courtier, then roll
6 dice and resolve the results for that Courtier, then
move onto the next Courtier and roll 6 dice, and so on.
Q: Is it intended that the Royal Zombie Dragon does not benefit
from a healing ability?
A: Yes.
Q: In a Pitched Battle, Royal Terrogheists and Royal Zombie
Dragons from a Gristlegore army are Battleline. Are they still
counted Behemoths as well?
A: No.
Q: Some abilities allow you to return a slain model to a unit.
When you do so, does the slain model have to originally have
come from the unit that it is returned to?
A: Yes.
Q: If I have 3 Abhorrant Ghoul Kings on the battlefield,
can I spend 3 command points to use the ‘Summon Menat-arms’ command ability 3 times at the end of the same
movement phase?
A: Yes.
BATTLETOME: FLESH-EATER COURTS
Designers’ Commentary, March 2019
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Legions of Nagash, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome:
Legions of Nagash. The errata are updated regularly;
when changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Page 60 – Legions of Nagash
Add:
‘The following units may be selected as part of a Grand
Host of Nagash, Legion of Sacrament, Legion of Blood
or Legion of Night army and gain the appropriate
faction keyword:
• Chainrasp Horde
• Glaivewraith Stalkers
• Grimghast Reapers
• Guardian of Souls with Mortality Glass
• Guardian of Souls with Nightmare Lantern
• Knight of Shrouds
• Knight of Shrouds on Ethereal Steed
• Lord Executioner
• Spirit Torment’
Pages 62, 64, 66 and 68 – Battle Traits, The
Unquiet Dead
Change the first sentence of the second paragraph to:
‘At the end of your movement phase, for each friendly
Death Hero within 9" of a gravesite, you may pick a
single friendly unit in the grave and set it up wholly
within 9" of the gravesite and more than 9" from any
enemy models.’
Pages 63, 65, 67 and 69 – Command Ability,
Endless Legions
Change to:
‘You can use this command ability at the end of your
movement phase. If you do so, pick a gravesite that
is within 9" of your general, and then pick a friendly
Summonable unit that has been destroyed. Set up that
unit wholly within 9" of that gravesite and more than 9"
from any enemy units.’
Page 64 – Legion of Sacrament, Command Traits, Mark
of the Favoured
Change the last sentence to:
‘On a 6+ the attacking unit suffers 1 mortal wound after
all of its attacks have been resolved.’
Page 67 – Legion of Blood, Artefacts of Blood, Ring
of Dominion
Add the following to the end of the rules text:
‘Abilities, modifiers or re-rolls that apply to attacks made
with that weapon when it is used by the enemy model do
not apply to the attacks made with it by the bearer.’
Page 67 – Legion of Blood, Artefacts of Blood, Amulet
of Screams
Change the rules text to:
‘Once per battle, when an enemy Wizard successfully
casts a spell, you can declare that the bearer will use the
Amulet of Screams. If you do so, you cannot attempt to
unbind the spell. Instead, roll a dice. On a 2+, the spell
is not successfully cast.’
Page 90 – The First Cohort, Ceaseless Vigil
Change to:
‘Before you allocate a wound or mortal wound to
Nagash, you can pick a friendly Morghast unit from
this battalion within 3" of Nagash and roll a dice. On
a 3+ the wound or mortal wound is allocated to that
unit instead.’
Page 92 – Deathmarch, March of the Dead
Change the rules text to:
‘At the start of your hero phase, each unit from this
battalion wholly within 12" of the battalion’s Wight
King and more than 3" from any enemy units can move
4". The units cannot run, or move within 3" of an enemy
unit, and the distance to the Wight King must be
measured before any of the moves are made.’
Page 100 – Prince Vhordrai, Breath of Shyish
Change the first sentence to:
‘At the start of your shooting phase, pick an enemy unit
within 8" of this model that is visible to it.’
BATTLETOME: LEGIONS OF NAGASH
Official Errata, March 2019
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Legions of Nagash, Errata 2
Page 100 – Prince Vhordrai, Fist of Nagash
Add:
‘The same unit cannot be picked to benefit from this
command ability more than once per hero phase.’
Page 103 – Vampire Lord on Zombie Dragon, Keywords
Add ‘Vampire’ to the list of keywords.
Page 106 – Vampire Lord, Blood Feast
Add the following sentence to the end of the rule:
‘You cannot pick the same unit to benefit from this
command ability more than once per hero phase.’
Page 110 – Necromancer, Undead Minions
Change to:
‘Undead Minions: Before you allocate a wound or
mortal wound to this model, you can pick a friendly
Summonable unit within 3" of this model and roll a
dice. On a 4+ the wound or mortal wound is allocated to
that unit instead.’
Page 112 – Terrorgheist, Death Shriek
Change the rules text to:
‘Do not use the attack sequence for an attack made with
this model’s Death Shriek. Instead roll a dice and add
the Death Shriek value shown on this model’s damage
table. If the total is higher than the target unit’s Bravery
characteristic, the target unit suffers a number of mortal
wounds equal to the difference between its Bravery
characteristic and the total.’
Page 112 – Terrorgheist, Gaping Maw
Change the rules text to:
‘If the unmodified hit roll for an attack made with this
model’s Fanged Maw is 6, that attack inflicts 6 mortal
wounds on the target unit and the attack sequence ends
(do not make a wound or save roll)’
Page 112 – Terrorgheist, Infested
Change the rules text to:
‘If this model is slain, before this model is removed
from play each unit within 3" of this model suffers D3
mortal wounds.’
Page 113 – Zombie Dragon, Pestilential Breath
Change the rules text to:
‘When you attack with this model’s Pestilential Breath,
roll a dice before making the hit roll for the attack. If
the roll is less than or equal to the number of models in
the target unit, the attack scores a hit without needing to
make a hit roll.’
Page 114 – Wight King (both warscrolls), Lord of Bones
Add the following sentence to the end of the rule:
‘You cannot pick the same unit to benefit from this
command ability more than once per hero phase.’
Pages 117, 118 and 119 – Cairn Wraith, Tomb Banshee,
Hexwraiths and Spirit Hosts
These warscrolls are no longer used. They have been
replaced with the warscrolls in Battletome: Nighthaunt.
Pages 118 and 120 – Black Coach and Pitched
Battle Profiles
Change the warscroll title and all references to ‘Black
Coach’ to:
‘Legion Black Coach’
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Legions of Nagash, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Legions of Nagash. It is presented as a series
of questions and answers; the questions are based on
ones that have been asked by players, and the answers
are provided by the rules writing team explain and how
the rules are intended to be used. The commentaries
help provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Q: How large is a gravesite and a gravesite marker?
A: A gravesite is a point you pick on the battlefield that
you measure to – it does not have a size as such, but you
can consider it to be 1mm across if you wish. Gravesite
markers are simply to help you remember where the
gravesites are located, and therefore can be of any size;
they have no effect on the game other than to mark
the location of the gravesites, they do not interfere with
movement or visibility, and they can be moved aside to
allow the movement and placement of units if need be
(in which case you will need to remember the location
of the gravesite by other means).
Q: If a single Hero is within 9" of two different gravesites,
can you set up two different units from the grave, one from
each gravesite?
A: Yes.
Q: In a battle between two Legions of Nagash, do both players
set up gravesites? If so, can a player use their opponent’s
gravesites as well as their own?
A: Yes to both questions.
Q: If I use the Unquiet Dead battle trait to set up a unit at the
end of my movement phase, can the unit move?
A: No. Things that happen at the end of a phase take
place after all of that phase’s usual activities; in the case
of the movement phase, this means they occur after all
normal moves have been made.
Q: Can I use one of the dice rolls for the Invigorating Aura
ability to both heal models and then (if enough points are left
over), bring back slain models? If I don’t roll high enough to
bring back a model with all of its wounds healed, can I bring it
back with only as many wounds remaining as the dice roll?
A: No to both questions. An Invigorating Aura roll can
either heal or return models, not both, and you can only
use it to return slain models whose combined Wounds
characteristic is equal to or less than the roll.
Q: For the purposes of Deathless Minions, if a model is within
12" of my general or a friendly Hero, do I roll 1 dice to negate
the wound or mortal wound, or 1 dice per friendly Hero
within 12" of the model?
A: Roll 1 dice to negate the wound or mortal wound.
Q: In what order are the Deathless Minions, Morikhane, and
Ceaseless Vigil (from the First Cohort) rules applied?
A: The Ceaseless Vigil ability is used first. Then the
Deathless Minions and Morikhane abilities can be used
(if applicable), in the order of your choice.
Q: How does Ceaseless Vigil interact with Skarbrand’s Total
Carnage rule?
A: Ceaseless Vigil cannot be used to reallocate wounds
suffered from Total Carnage.
Q: Can the warscroll battalions for specific Legions be taken
outside of the Legion named on their warscrolls?
A: The First Cohort can only be taken as part of the
Grand Host of Nagash (because the other Legions
cannot include Nagash). Any other battalions for
specific Legions can be included as part of a different
Legion as long as that Legion also includes the Mortarch
that must lead it. For example, to include the Court of
Nulahmia in a Legion of Sacrament army, the army
would also have to include Arkhan the Black (because if
the Legion of the Sacrament has any Mortarchs, one
must be Arkhan).
BATTLETOME: LEGIONS OF NAGASH
Designers’ Commentary, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Legions of Nagash, Designers’ Commentary 2
Q: In a Deathmarch battalion, can I move friendly units that
are within 9" of the Wight King after he has made his 4" move?
A: Yes.
Q: Do you need to tell your opponent which edge is chosen for
the Shifting Keep ability?
A: Yes.
Q: With Curse of Years, are rolls that may negate the mortal
wounds inflicted by the spell taken immediately after the
wounds are caused, but before you roll the dice again to see if
any more mortal wounds are suffered by the target unit? If yes,
do I get to roll for additional mortal wounds for wounds that
were negated?
A: Yes to the first question, and no to the
second question.
Q: Mannfred’s command ability has a range. Is the effect
worked out when the ability is used, or when the attacks
are made?
A: When the attacks are made.
Q: If Prince Vhordrai uses Fist of Nagash on a Hero, does that
Hero have to be within 3" of an enemy to pile in and attack?
A: Yes.
Q: Can I use the Bat Swarms’ Blood Suckers ability to bring
back models that have been slain?
A: No, it can only be used to heal the wounds on models
in the unit that have not been slain.
Q: Can a Vampire Lord both be given a Nightmare and be a
Flying Horror?
A: No.
Q: Do you receive the Attacks characteristic bonus for each
enemy Hero that dies within 9" of a Bloodseeker Palanquin?
A: Yes.
Q: Is the Coven Throne treated as a mount?
A: Yes. In addition, the Handmaidens and Spectral Host
are treated as mounts for rules purposes.
Q: The Legion Black Coach has the Hero keyword, but is not
a Leader according to the Pitched Battle profiles in the back of
the book. Is this correct?
A: Yes.
Q: Can I use the new model for the Nighthaunt Black Coach to
represent a Legion Black Coach?
A: Only if your opponent agrees to let you use it as a
proxy model.
Q: Can the Sepulchral Guard be taken in a Legion of
Nagash army?
A: No, but you should feel free to add the models to
units of Skeleton Warriors.
Q: Can a Mourngul be taken in a Legions of Nagash army?
A: No. It can be taken in Death and Nighthaunt armies,
and as an ally by a Soulblight army.
Q: With the Curse of Years spell, if I manage to keep on
inflicting wounds until the roll to inflict further wounds
becomes a 1 or more, does this mean that the target unit will
be destroyed?
A: Yes.
Q: Can I use the Deathless Minions, Endless Legions and
Invigorating Aura battle traits for allies in a Legions of
Nagash army?
A: No. However, note that several Nighthaunt units can
now be taken as part of a Legions of Nagash army, and
you can use those battle traits for those units (see the
Legions of Nagash errata).
Q: If I include a Chainguard, Execution Horde, or Death
Stalkers warscroll battalion in a Legions of Nagash army, is the
battalion (and the units in it) an ally?
A: Yes.
Q: If I include a Guardian of Souls in a Legions of Nagash
army, can it receive a spell from any of the Lores of the Dead?
A: No.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Nighthaunt, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Nighthaunt. It is presented as a series of
questions and answers; the questions are based on ones
that have been asked by players, and the answers are
provided by the rules writing team explain and how the
rules are intended to be used. The commentaries help
provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the stated date has a
note, e.g. ‘Regional update’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Q: For the purposes of Deathless Spirits, if a model is within 12"
of my general or a friendly Hero, do I roll 1 dice to negate the
wound or mortal wound, or 1 dice per friendly Hero within
12" of the model?
A: Roll 1 dice to negate the wound or mortal wound.
Q: Is the range of the Myrmourn Banshees’ unbinding
ability 18"?
A: Yes.
Q: The Chainguard warscroll battalion mentions a Temporal
Translocation spell. Where can I find this spell?
A: The spell appears on the warscroll supplied with the
Guardian of Souls with Mortality Glass that was made
available as a limited edition store anniversary model.
BATTLETOME: NIGHTHAUNT
Designers’ Commentary, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Grand Alliance: Destruction, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Grand Alliance:
Destruction. The errata are updated regularly; when
changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Pages 18-37 – Ironjawz and Bonesplitterz
These warscrolls are no longer used. They have been
replaced with the warscrolls in Battletome: Ironjawz and
Battletome: Bonesplitterz.
Page 56 – Grot Warboss, I’m da Boss, Now Stab
‘em Good
Change to:
‘You can use this command ability at the start of a
combat phase. If you do so, pick a friendly Moonclan
unit wholly within 12" of a model with this command
ability, or wholly within 24" of a model with this
command ability that is your general. If the unmodified
wound roll for an attack made by that unit in that phase
is 6, that attack inflicts 1 mortal wound on the target in
addition to any normal damage. You cannot pick the
same unit to benefit from this command ability more
than once per combat phase.’
Pages 92-102 – Beastclaw Raiders
These warscrolls are no longer used. They have
been replaced with the warscrolls in Battletome:
Beastclaw Raiders.
Pages 108-111 – The Rules
These rules are no longer used. Use the most recent
core rules instead.
GRAND ALLIANCE: DESTRUCTION
Official Errata, July 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Grand Alliance: Destruction, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Grand Alliance: Destruction. It is presented as a series of
questions and answers; the questions are based on ones
that have been asked by players, and the answers are
provided by the rules writing team explain and how the
rules are intended to be used. The commentaries help
provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Q: For a Great Moonclan, when you roll a 6 or more to hit
you get an extra attack with that weapon. Is that a flat extra
attack, or do you use the weapon’s Attacks characteristic (for
example, when Fanatics roll a 6 or more to hit, would they get
an additional D6 attacks for each such roll)?
A: It is a flat +1 attack.
Q: If I put more than one unit of Grot Fanatics in the same unit
of Moonclan Grots, can I release them over the course of several
different turns, or must they all be released at the same time?
Must all of the Fanatics that are released at the same time be
placed within 1" of the unit that is hiding them?
A: They must all be released at the same time, and must
all be placed within 1" of the unit that is hiding them.
Q: On the Moonclan Grots warscroll, how many Netters count
as a ‘few’?
A: Up to three out of every twenty models.
Q: Do all of the Nasty Skulkers in a unit need to be set up
within 1" of the unit they were hidden in after they use the
Surprise! rule?
A: Yes.
Q: I’d like clarification on the Trolls/Sourbreath Troggoths’ ‘Too
Dumb to Die’ rule. Do you start allocating wounds to one model
in the unit, continuing until it fails the Too Dumb to Die roll
(or there are no more wounds to allocate)?
A: Yes.
GRAND ALLIANCE: DESTRUCTION
Designers’ Commentary, June 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Beastclaw Raiders, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome:
Beastclaw Raiders. The errata are updated regularly;
when changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Pages 108, 110 and 112 – Frostlord on Stonehorn,
Huskard on Stonehorn and Stonehorn Beastriders,
Stone Skeleton
Change to:
‘Stone Skeleton: Halve the Damage characteristic
(rounding up) of weapons that target this model. In
addition, halve the number of mortal wounds this model
suffers from a spell or ability (rounding up).’
Page 109, 111 and 113 – Blasts of Frost-wreathed Ice
Change to:
‘In the shooting phase, pick a unit within 18" that
is visible to the Thundertusk. Do not use the attack
sequence for an attack made with Frost-wreathed Ice.
Instead roll a dice. On a 1, nothing happens. On a 2+,
the target unit suffers the number of mortal wounds
shown on the damage table above.’
Pages 117-120 – The Rules
These rules are no longer used. Use the most recent
core rules instead.
BATTLETOME: BEASTCLAW RAIDERS
Official Errata, July 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Beastclaw Raiders, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Beastclaw Raiders. It is presented as a series
of questions and answers; the questions are based on
ones that have been asked by players, and the answers
are provided by the rules writing team explain and how
the rules are intended to be used. The commentaries
help provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Q: The Stonehorn’s Earth-shattering Charge ability states that
if enemy models are within 12" of it ‘at the start of your charge
phase, it must attempt to charge, even if it ran in the movement
phase’. Can a Stonehorn make a charge move if it retreats from
combat in the same turn?
A: No.
Q: Can a Stonehorn choose not to make a charge move if the
dice roll is high enough for it to make a successful charge?
A: No.
BATTLETOME: BEASTCLAW RAIDERS
Designers’ Commentary, June 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Bonesplitterz, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome:
Bonesplitterz. The errata are updated regularly; when
changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Page 89 – Arcane Treasures, Mystic Waaagh! Paint
Change the last sentence to:
In addition, the bearer can attempt to unbind spells if
they are within 36" of the caster.
Page 104 – Wurrgog Prophet, Prophet of da Waaagh!
Add:
‘The same unit cannot be picked to benefit from this
command ability more than once per hero phase.’
Page 104 – Savage Big Boss, Let Me At ’Em
Change the second and third sentences to:
‘After this model has fought in the combat phase for the
first time, you can pick a friendly Bonesplitterz unit
that has not yet fought in that combat phase and which is
within 3" of an enemy unit and within 10" of this model.
That unit fights immediately, before the opposing player
picks a unit to fight in that combat phase. That unit
cannot fight again in that combat phase unless an ability
or spell allows it to fight more than once.’
Pages 109-112 – The Rules
These rules are no longer used. Use the most recent
core rules instead.
BATTLETOME: BONESPLITTERZ
Official Errata, July 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Gloomspite Gitz, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome:
Gloomspite Gitz. The errata are updated regularly; when
changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Page 62 – Blessings of the Bad Moon,
The Clammy Hand
Change the rules text to:
‘If this general is within 12" of a friendly Bad Moon
Loonshrine at the end of your turn, you can use the
Bad Moon Loonshrine’s ‘Moonclan Lair’ scenery rule
2 times at the end of that turn.’
Page 65 – Glinty Gubbinz That Troggoths Found,
Shiny Wotnot
Change the last sentence to:
‘If the mortal wound was inflicted by an endless spell,
on a 6+ that mortal wound is negated, and that endless
spell is dispelled (any other mortal wounds it could have
inflicted are negated).’
Page 74 – Fanatics Followers Table, D6 roll of 1-3
Change Followers to:
‘5 Loonsmasha Fanatics*’
Page 75 – Fanatics Followers Table, D6 roll of 4-6
Change Followers to:
‘5 Sporesplatta Fanatics*’
Page 89 – Loonboss, I’m Da Boss, Now Stab ’Em Good!
Change the first and second sentences of the rules
text to:
‘You can use this command ability at the start of the
combat phase. If you do so, pick 1 friendly Moonclan
Grot unit wholly within 12" of a friendly model with this
command ability, or wholly within 24" of a model with
this command ability that is your general.’
Page 89 – Loonboss with Giant Cave Squig, I’m Da Boss,
Now Stab ’Em Good!
Change the first and second sentences of the rules
text to:
‘You can use this command ability at the start of the
combat phase. If you do so, pick 1 friendly Moonclan
Grot unit wholly within 12" of a friendly model with this
command ability, or wholly within 24" of a model with
this command ability that is your general.’
Page 103 – Scuttleboss on Gigantic Spider, Ride ’Em
All Down!
Change the first and second sentences of the rules
text to:
‘You can use this command ability at the start of your
charge phase. If you do so, pick 1 friendly Spiderfang
Grot unit wholly within 18" of a friendly model with this
command ability.’
Page 111 – Pitched Battle Profiles, Sneaky Snufflers
Change the Min unit size to ‘6’ and the Max unit size to
‘18’ (there is no change to the Points value).
BATTLETOME: GLOOMSPITE GITZ
Official Errata, January 2019
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Gloomspite Gitz, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Gloomspite Gitz. It is presented as a series of
questions and answers; the questions are based on ones
that have been asked by players, and the answers are
provided by the rules writing team explain and how the
rules are intended to be used. The commentaries help
provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Q: Could you provide an example of how the Bad Moon travels
across the battlefield, just to make sure I am doing it right?
A: Certainly. At the start of the battle, the Gloomspite
Gitz player choose the top right-hand corner of the
battlefield as the starting location of the Bad Moon. As it
is on the edge of the battlefield, no models are affected
by its light that round. At the start of the second battle
round, if a 1 is rolled, the Bad Moon will stay on the
edge of the battlefield and no models will be affected
by its light that round. If a 2-5 is rolled, the Bad Moon
will make 1 move, taking it to the at the centre of
the top right-hand quarter of the battlefield, which will
mean that models in the upper right-hand quarter of the
battlefield will be affected by its light that round. If a 6 is
rolled, the Bad Moon will make 2 moves, taking it to the
 at centre of the battlefield, and all of the models on
the battlefield will be affected its light that round.
BATTLETOME: GLOOMSPITE GITZ
Designers’ Commentary, January 2019
®
Fig. 1 – The Bad Moon starts at the location marked by the
magenta dot.
Fig. 2 – On a roll of 2-5, the Bad Moon makes 1 move to the
centre of the top right-hand quarter of the battlefield.
Fig. 3 – On a roll of 6, the Bad Moon makes 2 moves to the
centre of the battlefield.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Gloomspite Gitz, Designers’ Commentary 2
Q: If two Gloomspite Gitz players are playing against one
another, which one rolls the dice to determine if the Bad Moon
moves? (This is important because Skragrott’s command ability
can only be used when you roll the dice.)
A: If there are two Gloomspite Gitz players, they roll off
to determine who moves the Bad Moon (just as they do
to see who sets it up).
Q: When is a unit (as opposed to a model) affected by the light
of the Bad Moon?
A: A unit is affected by the light of the Bad Moon if all
of the models in the unit are affected by the light of the
Bad Moon.
Q: The command traits, artefacts of power and spell lores
in Gloomspite Gitz say that they can used by models with a
certain keyword. For example, the spell lores can only be taken
by a Hero, which means that the Gobbapalooza models that
can cast spells can’t use them (as they don’t have the Hero
keyword), while the Fungoid Cave-Shaman doesn’t have the
Madcap Shaman keyword and so cannot use any of the
artefacts of power. Was this intentional?
A: Yes it was; it allowed us to make sure that important
abilities only affected specific types of unit.
Q: Are terrain features, such as the Bad Moon Loonshrine,
treated as units for the purposes of any other rules?
A: No, a terrain feature is not a unit.
Q: If I return a destroyed unit of Stabbas or Shootas to play, are
any Fanatics that were hiding in it also returned to play?
A: No.
Q: When I use a Bad Moon Loonshrine to replace a unit that
included command models and models armed with Barbed
Nets, are half of those models (rounded up) returned with the
unit too?
A: Yes. For example, if you replaced a unit of 30 models
that included 1 Moonclan Boss, 1 Gong Basher, 1
Standard Bearer and 3 models armed with Barbed Nets,
then the replacement unit would have 15 models that
included 1 Moonclan Boss, 1 Gong Basher, 1 Standard
Bearer and 2 models armed with Barbed Nets.
Q: Several warscrolls don’t include the Grot keyword even
though the unit includes Grots, while other warscrolls don’t
include the Squig keyword, even though the unit has Squigs.
For example, Squig Hoppers don’t have the Grot keyword,
while Sneaky Snufflers don’t have the Squig keyword. Was
this intentional?
A: Yes it was; it allowed us to make sure that important
abilities only affected specific types of unit.
Q: If I have two or more Fungoid Cave-Shamans in my army
and on the battlefield, does each one get to use the Mouthpiece of
Mork ability or only one?
A: Each one can use the ability.
Q: Should the netter in Zarbag’s Gitz have the Barbed Net
weapon profile?
A: No, he fights with a Slitta, but counts as having a
Barbed Net for the purposes of the Netters ability.
Q: If I am playing a Skirmish game, how do I work out the
renown for Zarbag and Zarbag’s Gitz?
A: Divide the points cost of Zarbag and Zarbag’s Gitz
(160) by the number of models in the unit (8), to give
the renown of each model (20). As you must take them
all if you take any of them, this means that although
Zarbag’s renown is a bit lower than it should be and the
renown of his Gitz is a bit higher than it should be, the
combined total for all of the models is still correct.
Q: If a Scuttleboss has the Monstrous Mount command trait
(which doubles the number of mortal wounds inflicted by Spider
Venom), and is then affected by the Venom of the Spider God
spell (which also doubles the number of mortal wounds inflicted
by Spider Venom), are the number of mortal wounds doubled
twice or only once?
A: They are doubled twice.
Q: The Aleguzzler Gargant’s ‘Timber!’ and ‘Drunken Stagger’
abilities say you must pick a point 3" from this model. Can the
point be within 3" of this model, or must it be exactly 3" from
its base?
A: It must be exactly 3" from its base.
Q: Does the light of the Bad Moon have any effect on the
Troggoth Hag’s ‘Hag Regeneration’ ability?
A: No.
Q: Does a Loonboss with Giant Cave Squig count as having
a Giant Cave Squig mount for the purposes of making Squig
Hoppers into Battleline units?
A: Yes.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Ironjawz, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome:
Ironjawz. The errata are updated regularly; when
changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Page 109 – Gordrakk, The Fist of Gork, Voice of Gork
Change the second sentence to:
‘You can use this command ability once per battle,
in your hero phase. If you do so, pick a friendly
Destruction unit wholly within 24" of Gordrakk.’
Page 114 – Orruk Weirdnob Shaman, Power of
the Waaagh!
Change the last sentence to:
‘However, if the casting or unbinding roll was a double,
then the closest other friendly Orruk unit within 10" of
the Weirdnob Shaman suffers D3 mortal wounds.’
Page 116 – Orruk Gore-gruntas, Gore-grunta Charge
Change the last sentence to:
‘If the distance is 8" or more and the charge is
successful, the gruntas’ Fanged Maw and Hooves have a
Damage characteristic of D3 instead of 1 until the end
of that turn.’
Page 121 – Ardfist, Drawn To The Waaagh!
Change the second sentence to:
‘Once per battle, if this battalion’s Warchanter is
on the battlefield, you can replace any units from this
battalion that have been destroyed.’
Page 123 – Ironfist, ’Ere We Go! ’Ere We Go! ’Ere
We Go!
Change to:
‘In your hero phase, if this battalion’s Big Boss is on the
battlefield, roll a dice. Each unit from the same battalion
can make a normal move of up to a number of inches
equal to the roll (they cannot run or retreat).’
Pages 125-128 – The Rules
These rules are no longer used. Use the most recent
core rules instead.
BATTLETOME: IRONJAWZ
Official Errata, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Ironjawz, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Ironjawz. It is presented as a series of questions
and answers; the questions are based on ones that have
been asked by players, and the answers are provided by
the rules writing team explain and how the rules are
intended to be used. The commentaries help provide a
default setting for your games, but players should always
feel free to discuss the rules before a game, and change
things as they see fit if they both want to do so (changes
like this are usually referred to as ‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Q: The Orruk-forged Shield ability on the Orruk Ardboys
warscroll does not mention mortal wounds. Can mortal wounds
be ignored on a roll of 6?
A: No. The ability only applies to ‘normal’ wounds.
Q: Can I use the Mighty Waaagh! and/or Waaagh! command
abilities to affect the same unit more than once in the
same phase?
A: Yes.
BATTLETOME: IRONJAWZ
Designers’ Commentary, July 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Grand Alliance: Order, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Grand Alliance:
Order. The errata are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Pages 12-43 – Stormcast Eternals, Extremis Chambers
These warscrolls are no longer used. They have
been replaced with the warscrolls in Battletome:
Stormcast Eternals.
Pages 46-83 – Seraphon
These warscrolls and warscroll battalions are no longer
used. They have been replaced with the warscrolls in
Battletome: Seraphon.
Pages 88-113 – Sylvaneth and Fyreslayers
These warscrolls are no longer used. They have been
replaced with the warscrolls in Battletome: Sylvaneth and
Battletome: Fyreslayers.
Page 129 – Sigmar’s Shield
Change to:
‘Sigmar’s Shield: If a friendly Devoted of Sigmar
model is slain by a wound or mortal wound that has
been allocated to the model while it is within range of
any friendly models with the Sigmar’s Shield ability, roll
a dice before the slain model is removed from play. On a
6, the wound or mortal wound is negated and the model
is not slain. The range of the Sigmar’s Shield ability for
this model is shown on the damage table above.’
Page 137 – Freeguild General on Griffon, Rousing
Battle Cry
Add:
‘The same unit cannot be picked to benefit from this
command ability more than once in the same phase.’
Page 138 – Freeguild General, Hold The Line!
Add:
‘The same unit cannot be picked to benefit from this
command ability more than once in the same phase.’
Page 141 – Freeguild Crossbowmen, Reload, Fire
Change to:
‘Reload, Fire: You can add 1 to the Attacks
characteristic of this unit’s missile weapons if it has
at least 20 models and is more than 3" from of any
enemy units.’
Page 176 – Warden King, Ancestral Grudge
Add:
‘The same unit cannot be picked as the target of this
command ability more than once in the same phase.’
Page 177 – Runelord, Rune Lore
Add the following to the end of the first paragraph:
‘A unit that is affected by a Rune Lore power cannot be
picked again in the same phase.’
Page 181 – Irondrakes, Blaze Away
Change to:
‘Blaze Away: You can add 1 to the Attacks characteristic
of this unit’s missile weapons if it has at least 10 models
and is more than 3" from of any enemy units.’
Page 183 – Long Beards, Old Grumblers, Who does this
beardling think he is?
Change to:
‘Friendly Dispossessed Heroes within 8" of this unit
are treated as if they were your general when working
out the range of command abilities.’
Page 188 – Quarrellers, Volley Fire
Change to:
‘You can add 1 to the Attacks characteristic of this unit’s
missile weapons if it has at least 20 models and is more
than 3" from any enemy units.’
Page 193 – Archmage on Dragon, Drain Magic
Add:
‘If that unit is an Endless Spell, it is dispelled.’
Page 199 – Spyreheart Warhost
Change the first bullet point under the Organisation
header to:
‘2 units chosen in any combination from the following
list: Flamespyre Phoenix, Frostheart Phoenix. Neither
unit may be ridden by an Anointed.’
GRAND ALLIANCE: ORDER
Official Errata, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Grand Alliance: Order, Errata 2
Page 201 – Flamespyre Phoenix, Phoenix Reborn
Change to:
‘The first time this model is slain during a battle, roll
a dice. On a result of 4 or more, it is reborn with all its
wounds restored! Set up the model anywhere on the
battlefield that is more than 9" from the enemy.’
Pages 230-240 – Daughters of Khaine
These warscrolls are no longer used. They have been
replaced with the warscrolls in Battletome: Daughters
of Khaine.
Page 254 – Assassin, Hidden Murderer
Change to:
‘Hidden Murderer: Instead of setting up this unit on
the battlefield, you can place it to one side and say that
it is set up in hiding as a reserve unit. At the start of a
combat phase, you can set up one or more of the reserve
units in hiding on the battlefield within 3" of a friendly
unit and more than 9" from any other models that were
in hiding and were set up at the start of the same combat
phase. Models that were in hiding fight at the start of
the combat phase in which they are set up, before the
players start picking any other units to fight in that
combat phase.’
Page 276 – Wild Riders, Description
Add:
‘Some units of Wild Riders carry Wild Rider Shields.’
Page 276 – Wild Riders, Abilities
Add:
‘Wild Rider Shields: You can re-roll save rolls of 1 for
attacks that target a unit carrying Wild Rider Shields.
In addition, subtract 2 from the Move characteristic of a
unit carrying Wild Rider Shields.’
Pages 277-280 – The Rules
These rules are no longer used. Use the most recent
core rules instead.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Grand Alliance: Order, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Grand Alliance: Order. It is presented as a series of
questions and answers; the questions are based on ones
that have been asked by players, and the answers are
provided by the rules writing team explain and how the
rules are intended to be used. The commentaries help
provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Q: When I use the Wending Wand, do I still have to set up the
unit more than 9" from enemy units? By the same token, if I use
the Stalker of the Hidden Paths command trait, must the unit
still be set up wholly within 6" of the table edge?
A: Yes to both questions.
Q: Do the shields that come with Sisters of the Thorns/Wild
Riders models have any special rules?
A: No.
Q: Can I use the Waystrider’s Heartseeker Arrow ability on a
general that is set up after the battle begins?
A: No.
GRAND ALLIANCE: ORDER
Designers’ Commentary, June 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Daughters of Khaine, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome:
Daughters of Khaine. The errata are updated regularly;
when changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Page 73 – Temple Nest, Lethal Transfixion
Change to:
‘Lethal Transfixion: Each time your opponent makes
a hit roll of 1 (after re-rolls, but before modifiers are
applied) when attacking a Temple Nest unit in the
combat phase, the attacking unit suffers 1 mortal wound
after all of its attacks have been made.’
Page 76 – Morathi, High Oracle of Khaine, Worship
Through Bloodshed
Add:
‘The same unit cannot be picked to benefit from this
command ability more than once per hero phase.’
Pages 78 and 82 – Slaughter Queen and Slaughter
Queen on Cauldron of Blood, Orgy of Slaughter
Add:
‘The same unit cannot be picked to benefit from this
command ability more than once per hero phase.’
BATTLETOME: DAUGHTERS OF KHAINE
Official Errata, June 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Daughters of Khaine, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Daughters of Khaine. It is presented as a series
of questions and answers; the questions are based on
ones that have been asked by players, and the answers
are provided by the rules writing team explain and how
the rules are intended to be used. The commentaries
help provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will
be highlighted in magenta. Where the stated date has
a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Q: Some of the temples of Khaine require that the general take a
specific command trait. What happens if an army is from such
a temple and has Morathi as its general?
A: Morathi is a named character and therefore cannot
have the command trait (she can still be your general).
Q: Do the Stormcast Eternals in a Shadowhammer Compact
battalion benefit from the bonuses that apply to any temple of
Khaine that the army belongs to?
A: No. These units only benefit from allegiance abilities
if they have the appropriate keyword – see ‘4. Allegiance’
on page 68 of the Battletome.
Q: Can a unit use Righteous Fervour from the Shadowhammer
Compact battalion to move after teleporting with the
Khailebron’s Mistress of Illusion command trait?
A: Yes.
Q: Are the two different versions of Morathi considered to be
the same unit for the purposes of any restrictions, penalties or
bonuses that applied before the transformation? For example,
if I use the Khailebron’s Mistress of Illusion command trait to
move Morathi, High Oracle of Khaine, and then transform
her to Morathi, the Shadow Queen, would the restriction on
not moving that applied to the Oracle also apply to the Shadow
Queen? Or if Morathi, High Oracle of Khaine is targeted by
the Maggotkin of Nurgle’s Gift of Contagion spell and suffers
a -1 modifier to her hit rolls, and then transforms, does the -1
modifier still apply to Morathi, the Shadow Queen?
A: Yes to all questions.
Q: When Morathi transforms, does the centre of her new base
need to be at the same location as the centre of her old base (if
there is room)? And if there isn’t room, is the location she is
moved to measured from the centre of her base?
A: Yes to both questions. When an ability refers to
setting up a model ‘on the same spot’, the centre of the
base of each model is used to determine where exactly
that spot is.
Q: How does Skarbrand’s Total Carnage ability interact with
Morathi’s Iron Heart of Khaine ability, when the roll is such
that the target unit suffers 8 wounds?
A: Morathi suffers 8 wounds: all 8 are allocated to her
and are not affected by the Iron Heart ability. Note that
if she survives, Morathi counts as having been allocated
3 wounds and/or mortal wounds in that turn for the
purposes of the Iron Heart ability.
Q: If a wound or mortal wound is allocated to Morathi and
then negated, does it still count as one of the maximum of 3
wounds and/or mortal wounds that can be allocated to her
that turn?
A: No. When a wound is negated, it no longer counts as
having been allocated to a model.
Q: Do any wounds or mortal wounds inflicted on Morathi at
the start of the battle round (by an endless spell, for example),
count towards the limit of 3 wounds that can be inflicted on
Morathi in the first turn of that round? Can things that heal
wounds at the start of the battle round be used to heal wounds
on Morathi?
A: No to both questions.
BATTLETOME: DAUGHTERS OF KHAINE
Designers’ Commentary, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Daughters of Khaine, Designers’ Commentary 2
Q: Can the Avatar of Khaine be targeted by enemies when it is
not animated?
A: Yes.
Q: Blood Stalkers’ Heartseeker Bows inflict mortal wounds in
the shooting phase. Morathi, High Oracle of Khaine lets units
shoot ‘as if it were the shooting phase’. Do the Blood Stalkers’
shots inflict mortal wounds when she lets them shoot?
A: No. How to deal with abilities that allow
a unit to act as if it were a different phase is
covered in the Warhammer Age of Sigmar core rules
Designers’ Commentary.
Q: The Khinerai Lifetakers’ Fight and Flight ability says ‘after
this unit has finished making all of its attacks’. What does that
mean exactly?
A: It means you can use the ability after you have
selected the unit to attack in the combat phase and it
has completed its attacks. Note that the ability cannot
be used unless the unit is eligible to attack in that
combat phase.
Q: Can Daughters of Khaine units in an Order army or
taken as allies in a Stormcast Eternal army use the Temples of
Khaine abilities?
A: No.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Fyreslayers, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome:
Fyreslayers. The errata are updated regularly; when
changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Page 103 – Auric Runefather on Magmadroth,
Steadfast Advance
Change the rules text to:
‘You can use this command ability in your hero
phase. If you do so, pick 1 friendly model with this
command ability. Until your next hero phase you can
re-roll battleshock tests and save rolls of 1 for friendly
Fyreslayer units while they are wholly within 18" of
that model, or wholly within 24" of that model if that
model is your general.’
Pages 107 and 110 – Auric Runeson on Magmadroth
and Auric Runeson, Explosive Rage
Change the last sentence to:
‘In addition, subtract 1 from the unit’s Bravery
characteristic until your next hero phase.’
Page 107 – Auric Runeson on Magmadroth,
Furious Onslaught
Change the rules text to:
‘You can use this command ability in your hero phase.
If you do so, pick 1 friendly model with this command
ability. Until your next hero phase you can re-roll charge
rolls for friendly Fyreslayer units while they are wholly
within 12" of that model.’
Page 108 – Auric Runefather, Lodge Leader
Change the rules text to:
‘You can use this command ability in your hero phase.
If you do so, pick 1 friendly model with this command
ability. Until your next hero phase, friendly Fyreslayer
units wholly within 12" of that model at the start of the
combat phase can move up to 5" when they pile in. In
addition, until your next hero phase, each time you
allocate a wound or mortal wound to that model, roll
a dice. On a 4+, you can allocate that wound or mortal
wound to a friendly Fyreslayer unit within 3" of that
model instead of allocating it to that model.’
Page 110 – Auric Runeson, Dauntless Assault
Change the rules text to:
‘You can use this command ability in your hero phase.
If you do so, pick 1 friendly model with this command
ability. Until your next hero phase you can re-roll wound
rolls of 1 for attacks made by friendly Fyreslayer units
while they are wholly within 18" of that model.’
Page 115 – Bladed Slingshield
Change the second sentence to:
‘After a unit with one or more Bladed Slingshields makes
a charge move, pick an enemy unit, and roll a dice for
each model from the charging unit carrying a Bladed
Slingshield that is within 8" of the enemy unit.’
Page 120 – Lords of the Lodge, Hot-blooded Fury
Change to:
‘At the start of the first battle round, you can declare
that you will attempt to seize the initiative. If you do so,
roll a dice. On a 2+ you take the first turn, even if your
opponent finished setting up their army first and would
normally be allowed to choose who has the first turn.’
Pages 124-127 – The Rules
These rules are no longer used. Use the most recent
core rules instead.
BATTLETOME: FYRESLAYERS
Official Errata, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Fyreslayers, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Fyreslayers. It is presented as a series of
questions and answers; the questions are based on ones
that have been asked by players, and the answers are
provided by the rules writing team explain and how the
rules are intended to be used. The commentaries help
provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will
be highlighted in magenta. Where the stated date has
a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Q: Do the Warrior Kinband’s Legacy of the Lodge and Lords
of the Lodge’s Oathbound Guardians abilities apply to units
within range or models within range?
A: Models.
Q: Does using a Forge Brethren unit’s Bulwark of Molten Stone
ability stop it from shooting in the same turn?
A: No.
Q: Can every unit of Auric Hearthguard use the Forge Brethren
Bulwark of Molten Stone ability if they are within 10" of the
Runesmiter, or is it a maximum of 1 unit per hero phase?
A: It is a maximum of 1 unit.
Q: Does the benefit from a Battlesmith’s Icon of Grimnir still
apply to units that – having been within 8" of him when the
ability was used – move more than 8" away from him?
A: Yes.
BATTLETOME: FYRESLAYERS
Designers’ Commentary, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Idoneth Deepkin, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome: Idoneth
Deepkin. The errata are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Page 88 – Akhelian Artefacts, Ankusha Spur
Change the second sentence to:
‘In addition, re-roll wound rolls of 1 for attacks made by
the bearer’s mount.’
Page 99 – Mor’phann, Warscroll Battalions
Change to:
‘A Mor’phann Namarti Corps (pg 122) can include up to
6 units of Namarti Reavers.’
Page 94 – The Ethersea
Change the final paragraph to:
‘An Idoneth Deepkin army can include up to 2
Gloomtide Shipwreck terrain features. After territories
have been chosen but before armies are set up, you
can set up the Gloomtide Shipwrecks anywhere on the
battlefield, more than 1” from any other terrain features,
more than 6” from any other Gloomtide Shipwrecks, and
more than 6” from where any objectives will be located
at the start of the first battle round. If both players can
set up a terrain feature before armies are set up, they
must roll-off, and the winner can choose the order in
which the terrain features are set up.’
Page 133 – Akhelian Leviadon, Razorshell
Harpoon Launcher
Change the name to ‘Harpoon Launchers’
Change the Attacks characteristic to 6.
Page 135 – Namarti Thralls, Icon Bearer
Change the first sentence to:
‘1 in every 10 models in this unit can be icon bearers.’
Page 135 – Namarti Reavers, Icon Bearer
Change the first sentence to:
‘1 in every 10 models in this unit can be icon bearers.’
BATTLETOME: IDONETH DEEPKIN
Official Errata, July 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Idoneth Deepkin, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Idoneth Deepkin. It is presented as a series of
questions and answers; the questions are based on ones
that have been asked by players, and the answers are
provided by the rules writing team explain and how the
rules are intended to be used. The commentaries help
provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will
be highlighted in magenta. Where the stated date has
a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Q: How does the High Tide rule work if two Idoneth Deepkin
armies fight each other?
A: If both sides can use an ability at the start of a phase
(such as the High Tide allegiance ability), the player
whose turn is taking place uses it first, followed by their
opponent. This means that all the Idoneth Deepkin
units from the player whose turn is taking place attack
first, followed their opponent’s Idoneth Deepkin units.
Q: Forgotten Nightmares states that ‘Missile weapons can only
be used to target an Idoneth Deepkin unit with this battle
trait if it is the closest visible enemy unit.’ Can I ignore this
restriction if the attacking unit has an ability that allows it to
target a unit that is not visible?
A: No.
Q: If a Hero uses the Cloud of Midnight in the enemy shooting
phase and is the closest visible unit to an attacker, does this
stop that attacker from shooting at any other Idoneth
Deepkin units?
A: Yes.
Q: If I use the Sands of Infinity when a wizard casts Riptide,
what happens to the unit I pick to be the target of the spell?
A: Subtract 1 from hit rolls for attacks made by that unit
until your hero phase after next. At the start of your hero
phase after next, that unit suffers D3 mortal wounds.
Q: The rules say that Idoneth Deepkin armies have the ability to
place two Etheric Vortexes. A Gloomtide Shipwreck is an Etheric
Vortex that can be placed in two halves. Does this mean that
the total number of Shipwreck halves that may be placed by an
Idoneth Deepkin player is 4?
A: No, the total number of Shipwreck halves that may be
placed is 2. The rules allow the Idoneth Deepkin player
to set up 2 Etheric Vortex terrain features; as noted on
its warscroll, if a Gloomtide Shipwreck model is split up,
each half of the model is 1 terrain feature, and therefore
each half counts as 1 of the 2 terrain features you can
set up.
Q: If an Ionrach Royal Council has more than one Tidecaster or
Soulscryer, do they all need to be within 3" of the Akhelian King
in order to use the Give Them No Respite command ability?
A: No. You can use the command ability as long as at
least 1 Tidecaster and 1 Soulscryer is within 3" of the
Akhelian King.
Q: Do the Sylvaneth units in an Alliance of Wood and Sea
receive the benefits of any Enclave the army belongs to?
A: No (with the exception of the Emissary of the Deep
Places command trait).
Q: Does the Ionrach’s Emissary of the Deep Places command
trait apply after your general is slain?
A: Yes.
Q: Does the Akhelian Corps’ Pulsing Rhythm of the Drums
ability allow me to re-roll one of the dice in a charge roll, or
must I re-roll both?
A: You must re-roll both.
Q: The Dormant Energies ability on the Eidolon of Mathlann,
Aspect of the Sea warscroll says you can re-roll a casting roll,
and that if you don’t re-roll a casting roll, you can heal D3
wounds. Can you heal D3 wounds if you use a different ability
or rule to re-roll the casting roll?
A: No.
BATTLETOME: IDONETH DEEPKIN
Designers’ Commentary, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Idoneth Deepkin, Designers’ Commentary 2
Q: Can I add 1 to save rolls for the Akhelian Leviadon because
of its Void Drum ability?
A: No – the Leviadon is a Monster with a Wounds
characteristic of 8 or more, and units containing such
models never receive the cover save modifier (we instead
reflected the effect of the Void Drum combined with the
Leviadon’s thick shell by giving the model a very high
save roll).
Q: Do Idoneth Deepkin units in an Order army or taken as
allies in a Stormcast Eternals army gain access to an Enclave?
A: No.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Kharadron Overlords, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome:
Kharadron Overlords. The errata are updated regularly;
when changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Page 92 – Barak-Nar, Command Trait, Champion
of Progress
Change the last sentence to:
‘Friendly Barak-Nar units do not have to take
battleshock tests while they are within 3" of
your general.’
Page 93 – Barak-Zilfin, the Windswept City, There’s
Always A Breeze If You Look For It
Change the last sentence of the first paragraph to:
‘It can act normally for the remainder of the turn.’
Page 98 – Command Traits, Rising Star
Change the rules text to:
‘Friendly units can use your general’s Bravery
characteristic instead of their own while they are within
3" of your general.’
Page 99 – Battle Traits, Amendment, Trust
Aethermatics, Not Superstition
Change the last sentence to:
‘If they can already attempt to unbind a spell, they can
attempt to unbind one extra spell.’
Page 101 – Aethermatic Weapons,
Aethershock Earbuster
Change the third sentence to:
‘If any models are slain with this weapon, their unit
must take a battleshock test immediately after all of the
bearer’s attacks in that phase have been completed.’
Page 101 – Treasures of the Sky-ports,
Aethersight Loupe
Change the last sentence to:
‘If they can already attempt to unbind a spell, they can
attempt to unbind one extra spell.’
Page 127 – Iron Sky Command, Lord of the Skies
Change the rules text to:
‘Add 1 to the Bravery characteristic of friendly units
while they are within 12" of the Arkanaut Ironclad from
this battalion.’
Page 127 – Iron Sky Command, Trusted Bodyguard
Change the first sentence to:
‘While a friendly Hero is within 3" of the Arkanaut
Company from this battalion, you can roll a dice every
time you allocate a wound or mortal wound to the hero
and it is not negated.’
Page 128 – Iron Sky Squadron, Bold Privateers
Change the rules text to:
‘In the turn in which an Arkanaut Company from this
battalion disembarks from an Arkanaut Frigate from
this battalion, you can re-roll run and charge moves for
that Arkanaut Company.’
Page 136 – Aether-Khemist, Aetheric Augmentation
Change the rules text to:
‘In your hero phase, you can say that an Aether-Khemist
is using their Atmospheric Anatomiser to augment
the weapons of nearby Arkanauts. If you do so, pick
a friendly Skyfarers unit within 10" of the AetherKhemist, and then pick a single type of weapon carried
by models in that unit. Until your next hero phase, add 1
to the Attacks characteristic of that type of weapon when
it is used by any models in that unit. A weapon cannot be
augmented more than once per hero phase.’
Page 136 – Aether-Khemist, Atmospheric Isolation
Change the rules text to:
‘Subtract 1 from the Attacks characteristic of enemy
melee weapons, to a minimum of 1, while the model
using them is within 3" of any Aether-Khemists.’
Pages 138 and 139 – Arkanaut Ironclad and Arkanaut
Frigate, Disembark
Change the first sentence to:
‘At the start of your hero phase, any friendly units
embarked within this model can disembark.’
BATTLETOME: KHARADRON OVERLORDS
Official Errata, June 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Kharadron Overlords, Errata 2
Pages 138, 139, 142 and 143 – Arkanaut
Ironclad, Arkanaut Frigate, Endrinriggers and
Skywardens, Skyhook
Change the rules text to:
‘After all attacks for this unit are completed, if any
wounds inflicted by this unit’s Skyhook were allocated
to an enemy unit and not negated, you can move this
unit D6", as long as it ends the move closer to one of the
enemy units that the wounds inflicted by the Skyhook
were allocated to.’
Page 140 – Grundstok Gunhauler, Drill Cannon
Change the Range characteristic to ‘24"’.
Pages 140, 142 and 143 – Grundstok Gunhauler,
Endrinriggers and Skywardens, Drill Cannon
Change the Damage characteristic to ‘D3’.
Page 141 – Grundstok Thunderers
This warscroll is no longer used. It has been replaced
with the warscroll on the Games Workshop website.
Pages 142 and 143 – Endrinriggers and
Skywardens, Skyhook
Change the Damage characteristic to ‘D3’.
Pages 142 and 143 – Endrinriggers and Skywardens,
Grapnel Launcher
Change to:
‘Grapnel Launcher: A unit with Grapnel Launchers can
use them at the end of their shooting phase if they are
more than 3" from any enemy units. Choose a terrain
feature, or a model with a Wounds characteristic of 10 or
more, that is within 24" of this unit. Then roll 1 dice for
each model in this unit armed with a Grapnel Launcher.
If any of the dice roll a 4 or more a grapnel has snagged
on the target; you can immediately move this unit any
distance, as long as each model in this unit is moved
directly and in a straight line towards the target and no
model in this unit moves within 3" of any enemy models
at any point in the move.’
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Kharadron Overlords, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Kharadron Overlords. It is presented as a series
of questions and answers; the questions are based on
ones that have been asked by players, and the answers
are provided by the rules writing team explain and how
the rules are intended to be used. The commentaries
help provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will
be highlighted in magenta. Where the stated date has
a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Q: Are the sky-ports rules allegiance abilities – that is, can they
only be used by Kharadron Overlords armies?
A: Yes.
Q: When using a Skywarden’s or Endrinrigger’s Grapnel
Launcher, can you pick any part of a terrain feature to measure
the range to? Can you enter that terrain feature, or just move
towards it?
A: The range is measured to the closest point of the
terrain feature. The move is made towards the closest
point of the terrain feature, and ends when you reach it
(so you cannot enter it).
Q: Do models slain by and/or caused to flee by the first
battleshock test caused by an Aethershock Earbuster count as
slain for battleshock tests at the end of the turn?
A: Yes.
Q: If a unit does not have to take battleshock tests, does this
apply to battleshock tests caused by an Aethershock Earbuster?
A: Yes.
BATTLETOME: KHARADRON OVERLORDS
Designers’ Commentary, June 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Seraphon, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome:
Seraphon. The errata are updated regularly; when
changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Pages 98-133 – Warscrolls
Remove the following summoning spells:
• Summon Oldblood
• Summon Sunblood
• Summon Saurus Warlord
• Summon Eternity Warden
• Summon Saurus Guard
• Summon Carnosaur
• Summon Knight Veteran
• Summon Saurus
• Summon Astrolith Bearer
• Summon Saurus Knights
• Summon Starseer
• Summon Starpriest
• Summon Troglodon
• Summon Skink Priest
• Summon Skinks
• Summon Chameleon Skinks
• Summon Salamanders
• Summon Razordons
• Summon Skink Handlers
• Summon Kroxigor
• Summon Bastiladon
• Summon Terradons
• Summon Ripperdactyls
• Summon Stegadon
• Summon Engine of the Gods
Page 101 – Lord Kroak, Dead for Innumerable Ages
Add the following to the end of this rule:
‘For any rules purposes other than being slain, Lord
Kroak is treated as having a Wounds characteristic of 7.’
Page 101 – Lord Kroak, Celestial Deliverance
Change the rules text to:
‘The caster can attempt to cast this spell up to three
times in the same hero phase. Celestial Deliverance
has a casting value of 8 the first time it is attempted
in a hero phase, a casting value of 9 the second time
it is attempted in a hero phase, and a casting value of
10 the third time it is attempted in a hero phase. Each
time the spell is successfully cast, pick up to 3 different
enemy units within 10" of the caster and visible to them,
and roll a dice for each unit you pick. On a 2+, that
unit suffers D3 mortal wounds. If that unit is a Chaos
Daemon unit, on a 2+ it suffers 3 mortal wounds instead
of D3 mortal wounds.’
Page 101 – Lord Kroak, Impeccable Foresight
Change the rules text to:
‘You can use this command ability at the start of your
hero phase. If you do so, roll 3 dice. For each 4+, you
receive 1 extra command point. You cannot use this
command ability more than once per hero phase.’
Page 102 – Saurus Oldblood, Paragon of Order
Add:
‘The same unit cannot benefit from this command
ability more than once in the same phase.’
Page 112 – Saurus Astrolith Bearer, Celestial Conduit
Change the rules text to:
‘Add 1 to casting rolls for friendly Seraphon Wizards
while they are within 12" of any models with this ability.
In addition, add 8" to the range of any spells cast by
friendly Seraphon Wizards while they are within 12"
of any models with this ability.’
Page 112 – Saurus Astrolith Bearer, Proud Defiance
Change the rules text to:
‘You can re-roll hit rolls for friendly Seraphon units
while they are wholly within 12" of this model.’
Page 114 – Skink Starseer, Cosmic Herald
Change the rules text to:
‘At the start of your hero phase, you can roll a dice for
this model. If you do so, on a 2+, you receive 1 command
point. On a 1, your opponent receives 1 command
point instead.’
BATTLETOME: SERAPHON
Official Errata, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Seraphon, Errata
2
Page 120 – Chameleon Skinks, Chameleon Ambush
Add the following sentence to the end of the rule:
‘Summoned units cannot be set up in hiding.’
Page 129 – Ripperdactyl Riders, Voracious Appetite
Change the rules text to:
‘If the hit roll for an attack made with a Ripperdactyl’s
Vicious Beak scores a hit, that attack inflicts D3 hits on
the target instead of 1. Make a wound and save roll for
each hit.’
Page 133 – Engine of the Gods, Cosmic Engine
Change the 14-17 result to:
‘You can summon 1 unit from the list below to the
battlefield, and add it to your army. The summoned unit
must be set up wholly within 12" of this model and more
than 9" from any enemy units. The summoned unit
cannot move in the following movement phase.
• 20 Skinks
• 10 Saurus Warriors
• 3 Ripperdactyls
• 3 Terradons’
Page 133 – Engine of the Gods, Cosmic Engine
Change the 18+ result to:
‘Time crawls to a halt around your army. For the rest of
the turn, double the Move characteristic of all friendly
Seraphon models and double the Attacks characteristic
of all weapons used by friendly Seraphon models.’
Page 139 – Thunderquake Starhost, The Creator’s Will
Change the second sentence to:
‘At the start of your charge phase, you can declare that
all of those units will be swift until your next charge
phase, in which case you can re-roll charge rolls for
those units and hit rolls for attacks made by those units.
You can instead declare that all those units will be
savage until your next charge phase, in which case you
can re-roll wound rolls for attacks made by those units
and save rolls for attacks that target those units.’
Page 140 – Starbeast Constellation, Strategic Mastery
Change the second sentence to:
‘At the start of the battle, you receive D3+1 command
points, instead of 1, for each Starbeast Constellation in
your army.’
Pages 141-144 – The Rules
These rules are no longer used. Use the most recent
core rules instead.
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Seraphon, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Seraphon. It is presented as a series of
questions and answers; the questions are based on ones
that have been asked by players, and the answers are
provided by the rules writing team explain and how the
rules are intended to be used. The commentaries help
provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will
be highlighted in magenta. Where the stated date has
a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Q: Do the modifiers for the Sworn Guardians ability on Saurus
Guard units apply to the unit or nearby Heroes?
A: The unit.
Q: If I use the Saurus Scar-Veteran on Carnosaur’s Saurian
Savagery command ability on a unit more than once, do I get 1
extra attack on a 6 for each time it has been used?
A: Yes.
Q: If a unit of Ripperdactyl Riders is placed in reserve, is the
Bloat Toad still placed on the battlefield?
A: Yes.
Q: If a unit of Ripperdactyl Riders is summoned after their first
hero phase, is the Bloat Toad still placed on the battlefield?
A: No.
Q: Can a Slann with the Light of Dracothion use it to unbind a
spell anywhere on the battlefield?
A: No.
BATTLETOME: SERAPHON
Designers’ Commentary, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Stormcast Eternals, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome:
Stormcast Eternals. The errata are updated regularly;
when changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Regional update’, this means it has
had a local update, only in that language, to clarify a
translation issue or other minor correction.
Page 122 – Lore of Invigoration
Add the following under the title:
‘Units of Evocators can know and attempt to cast one
spell from the Lore of Invigoration. This is an exception
to the rule that they cannot attempt to cast spells other
than Empower. If a unit of Evocators attempts to cast a
spell from the Lore of Invigoration, it cannot attempt to
cast any other spells in that hero phase.’
Page 126 – Hammers of Sigmar, Soul of the Stormhost
Add the following to the end of the rule.
‘You cannot use this command ability more than once
per phase.’
Page 128 – Celestial Vindicators, Righteous Hatred
Add the following to the end of the rule:
‘You cannot pick the same unit to benefit from this
command ability more than once per hero phase.’
Page 129 – Anvils of the Heldenhammer, Heroes of
another Age
Add the following to the end of the rule:
‘You cannot pick the same unit to benefit from this
command ability more than once per hero phase.’
BATTLETOME: STORMCAST ETERNALS
Official Errata, July 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Stormcast Eternals, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Stormcast Eternals. It is presented as a series
of questions and answers; the questions are based on
ones that have been asked by players, and the answers
are provided by the rules writing team explain and how
the rules are intended to be used. The commentaries
help provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the stated date has a
note, e.g. ‘Regional update’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Q: Does the Hallowed Knights Only the Faithful ability apply to
spells cast by friendly Wizards?
A: Yes.
Q: Does the Celestant-Prime’s Retribution from On High Ability
add 2 to the Attacks characteristic of Ghal Maraz for each turn
that the Celestant-Prime remains in reserve?
A: Yes.
Q: As the proud owner of a Stardrake, I have a question.
Say for example a Bloodthirster was in combat with a unit of
Paladins and they knocked it down to 4 remaining wounds
and then a Stardrake piled in – does the Cavernous Jaws ability
then work on a roll of 5 or more to eat the Bloodthirster, or is it
rolled against the warscroll’s Wounds characteristic?
A: It is rolled against the model’s Wounds characteristic.
The wounds allocated to a model do not reduce its
Wounds characteristic.
Q: If I use the Lord-Arcanum’s Cycle of the Storm to heal a
wound on a model instead of slaying it, what happens to any
wounds that remain to be allocated?
A: Continue to allocate them as normal. Cycle of the
Storm will not always stop a model from being slain, but
will require an extra wound to be inflicted in order to
do so.
Q: Does the Thundershock spell automatically subtract 1 from
hit rolls for attacks made by enemy units that are in range, or
only if I roll a 4+?
A: Only if you roll a 4+.
Q: Can I use Gavriel Sureheart’s command ability to affect the
same unit more than once in the same phase?
A: Yes.
BATTLETOME: STORMCAST ETERNALS
Designers’ Commentary, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Sylvaneth, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Battletome:
Sylvaneth. The errata are updated regularly; when
changes are made any changes from the previous
version will be highlighted in magenta. Where the date
has a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Page 132 – Alarielle the Everqueen, Soul Amphorae
Change to:
‘Soul Amphorae: With a gesture, Alarielle can summon
forth healing pollens and soul seeds from the amphorae arrayed
around her mount.
In your hero phase, you can heal D3 wounds allocated
to each Sylvaneth model within 30" of this model.
Once per battle, in your hero phase, instead of using
this ability to heal, you can summon 1 unit from the list
below to the battlefield, and add it to your army. The
summoned unit must be set up wholly within 9" of this
model and more than 9" from any enemy units. That
unit cannot move in the following movement phase.
Choose a unit from the following list:
• 20 Dryads
• 10 Tree-Revenants
• 10 Spite-Revenants
• 3 Kurnoth Hunters
• 1 Branchwych
• 1 Treelord’
Page 133 – Drycha Hamadreth, Colony of Flitterfuries
Change the second sentence to:
‘When she attacks with her Colony of Flitterfuries, roll
10 dice for each enemy unit within the range shown on
the damage table.’
Pages 134, 135 and 136 – Spirit of Durthu, Treelord
Ancient and Treelord, Groundshaking Stomp
Change the first sentence to:
‘At the start of the combat phase, roll a dice for each
enemy unit within 3" of any models with this ability.’
Page 135 – Treelord Ancient, Silent Communion
Change to:
‘Silent Communion: In your hero phase, you can pick
1 friendly Treelord Ancient and roll a dice. On a 4+,
you can set up 1 Sylvaneth Wyldwood terrain feature
wholly within 24" of that Treelord Ancient, and more
than 3" from any other models or terrain features.’
Page 137 – Branchwraith, Roused to Wrath
Change to:
‘Roused to Wrath: With biting verses, the Branchwraith sings
to its allies through the realmroots, calling them forth to join
the reaping.
Roused to Wrath has a casting value of 7. If successfully
cast, you can summon a unit of 10 Dryads and add it
to your army. The summoned unit must be set up more
than 9" from any enemy units, and wholly on or within a
Sylvaneth Wyldwood that is within 12" of the caster.
The summoned unit cannot move in the following
movement phase.’
Page 139 – Kurnoth Hunters, Envoys of the Everqueen
Change to:
‘Envoys of the Everqueen: If a friendly Sylvaneth
Hero uses a command ability, you can measure the
range of that command ability from a friendly Kurnoth
Hunters unit instead of the Hero.’
Pages 141-144 – The Rules
These rules are no longer used. Use the most recent
core rules instead.
BATTLETOME: SYLVANETH
Official Errata, June 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Battletome: Sylvaneth, Designers’ Commentary 1
The following commentary is intended to complement
Battletome: Sylvaneth. It is presented as a series of
questions and answers; the questions are based on ones
that have been asked by players, and the answers are
provided by the rules writing team explain and how the
rules are intended to be used. The commentaries help
provide a default setting for your games, but players
should always feel free to discuss the rules before a
game, and change things as they see fit if they both want
to do so (changes like this are usually referred to as
‘house rules’).
Our commentaries are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will
be highlighted in magenta. Where the stated date has
a note, e.g. ‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local
update, only in that language, to clarify a translation
issue or other minor correction.
Q: The Gnarlroot Wargrove’s Seekers of Knowledge ability
allows ‘a Gnarlroot Treelord Ancient, Branchwych or
Branchwraith’ to cast and unbind extra spells. Does this ability
affect only one, or all such models in the warscroll battalion?
A: It affects all such models.
Q: Can I use the Navigate Realmroots ability if my unit is
within 3" of an enemy unit?
A: Yes, but that move does not count as a retreat.
Q: When I use the Solemn Guardians ability, do I roll for each
Spirit of Durthu that is within 6" of the hero?
A: No, roll only once. If the roll is successful, you can
choose which Spirit of Durthu to allocate the wound to.
Q: If I set up a Sylvaneth Wyldwood that is made up of three
Citadel Woods, does each Citadel Wood need to be within 1" of
both of the other Citadel Woods, or can it be set up within 1"
of only one of them? In other words, can I set up a Sylvaneth
Wyldwood in a row, or must it be set up in a clump?
A: Each Citadel Wood must be set up within 1" of both
of the other Citadel Woods (i.e. in a clump).
Q: When I use the Envoys of the Everqueen ability, how
many units can use the command? Is it just one unit of
Kurnoth Hunters?
A: You can use the command ability once, but you can
measure the range of the ability from a friendly unit
of Kurnoth Hunters instead of the Hero (if the Hero
is a general, the range of the ability is based on the
command ability being used by a general, even if it is
measured from a unit of Kurnoth Hunters).
Q: Does the Overgrown Wilderness scenery rule apply to the
Citadel Woods that make up a Sylvaneth Wyldwood?
A: Yes.
Q: Do the enemy units that Drycha Hamadreth attacks with her
Colony of Flitterfuries have to be visible to her?
A: Yes.
BATTLETOME: SYLVANETH
Designers’ Commentary, December 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Blightwar, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in Blightwar.
The errata are updated regularly; when changes are
made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Revision 2’, this means it has had a local update, only
in that language, to clarify a translation issue or other
minor correction.
Page 34 – Neave Blacktalon
Add the following to this warscroll’s keywords:
‘Hero’
BLIGHTWAR
Official Errata, June 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar – Silver Tower Warscrolls, Errata 1
The following errata correct errors in the Age of Sigmar
warscrolls for the miniatures in Warhammer Quest Silver
Tower. The errata are updated regularly; when changes
are made any changes from the previous version will be
highlighted in magenta. Where the date has a note, e.g.
‘Regional update’, this means it has had a local update,
only in that language, to clarify a translation issue or
other minor correction.
Blue Horrors of Tzeentch, Brimstone
Horrors of Tzeentch, Kairic Acolytes, Ogroid
Thaumaturge, Tzaangors
These warscrolls are no longer used. They have been
replaced with the warscrolls in Battletome: Disciples
of Tzeentch.
Knight-Questor
This warscroll is no longer used. It has been replaced
with the warscroll in Battletome: Stormcast Eternals.
Excelsior Warpriest, Loyal Companion
Change to:
‘Faithful Hound: The first time this model is set up
on the battlefield, you can call a Gryph-hounds unit
consisting of a single model to the battlefield and
add it to your army. Set up the Gryph-hound wholly
within 3" of this model and more than 9" from any
enemy units. That Gryph-hound treats this model as a
friendly Lord-Castellant for the purposes of its Loyal
Companion rule.’
Gryph-hounds
This warscroll is no longer used. It has been replaced
with the warscroll in Battletome: Stormcast Eternals.
Gaunt Summoner and Chaos Familiars, Description
Change to:
‘A Gaunt Summoner of Tzeentch and Chaos Familiars is
a single model with four Chaos Familiars: Tweak, Slop,
Blot and Pug. The Gaunt Summoner of Tzeentch is
armed with a Changestaff and Warptongue Blade. The
Gaunt Summoner of Tzeentch and its Chaos Familiars
are treated as a single model using the characteristics
given above. The Chaos Familiars must remain within 1"
of the Gaunt Summoner of Tzeentch’s model.’
Gaunt Summoner and Chaos Familiars, Book of
Profane Secrets
Change to:
‘Book of Profane Secrets: Whispering fell incantations,
a Gaunt Summoner can temporarily divert the path of a
Realmgate, allowing malefic Chaos entities to manifest on
the battlefield.
Once per battle, at the end of your movement phase,
if this model is within 9" of a Realmgate it can use its
Book of Profane Secrets. If it does so, you can summon
1 unit from the list below to the battlefield, and add it to
your army. The summoned unit must be set up wholly
within 9" of a this model and wholly within 9” of the
Realmgate, and more than 9" from any enemy units.
Choose a unit from the following list:
• 10 Pink Horrors
• 10 Bloodletters
• 10 Plaguebearers
• 10 Daemonettes’
Gaunt Summoner and Chaos Familiars,
Chaos Familiars
Change the first paragraph to:
‘If any wounds or mortal wounds are allocated to this
model and not negated, you can choose to remove
one Chaos Familiar. If you do so, the wound or mortal
wound is negated.’
Skaven Deathrunner, Illusory Twin
Change to:
‘When this Skaven Deathrunner is set up, place both of
its Skaven Deathrunner models on the battlefield. They
do not need to be within 1" of each other. When one
of these Skaven Deathrunner models attacks or uses
an ability, command trait or artefact of power, then the
other model is removed from play. If one of these Skaven
Deathrunner models is slain, roll a dice. On a 1-3, the
other model is removed from play. On a 4+, the other
model is not removed from play.’
SILVER TOWER WARSCROLLS
Errata, July 2018
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar: Base Sizes 1
BASE SIZES
December 2018
BASE SIZES IN MATCHED PLAY GAMES
In Warhammer Age of Sigmar, most distances are measured from one model’s base to another model’s base. In the
vast majority of games, the actual size of the base is not terribly important, and you can use bases of whatever size
or shape you prefer.
The only possible exception to this is matched play games. This is because matched play games are intended to be
evenly balanced contests, and in these circumstances having the same model on a different sized base can become
an issue. To address this, on the following pages you will find a set of suggested matched play base sizes for all of
the models in the Warhammer Age of Sigmar range.
Don’t worry – you don’t have to rebase your model if it is not on the suggested base unless you want to (that’s why
these are suggested base sizes rather than mandatory ones). If you prefer not to rebase your models, just assume that
the model is mounted on a base of the appropriate size when setting the model up, moving it, or measuring any
distances in a matched play game. For example, if you are a veteran player using an old unit that is mounted on
25mm square bases instead of the suggested 32mm round bases, you should set the unit up, make any moves, and
measure all distances as if they were mounted on the larger 32mm round bases when you play matched play games.
Although this may sound a bit complicated, in practice it is actually very easy to do.
We’ve organised the base sizes first by Grand Alliance, and then alphabetically by faction. To find a model’s
suggested base size, simply look up the model’s Grand Alliance and then its faction, and then read down the list
until you find the model in question. The suggested base size appears to the right of the model’s name. As new
models are added to the Warhammer Age of Sigmar range, we will add their suggested bases sizes to the list. When
changes are made to the list, any changes from the previous version will be highlighted in magenta.
®
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar: Base Sizes 2
BASE SIZES – CHAOS
BEASTS OF CHAOS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Beastlord 32mm
Bestigors 32mm
Bullgors 50mm
Centigors 60 x 35mm
Chaos Warhounds 60 x 35mm
Chimera 120 x 92mm
Cockatrice 60mm
Cygor 120 x 92mm
Doombull 50mm
Dragon Ogor Shaggoth 90 x 52mm
Dragon Ogors 90 x 52mm
Ghorgon 120 x 92mm
Gors 32mm
Great Bray-Shaman 32mm
Jabberslythe 120 x 92mm
Razorgors 75 x 42mm
Tuskgor Chariots 105 x 70mm
Ungor Raiders 25mm
Ungors 25mm
BLADES OF KHORNE
UNIT BASE SIZE
Aspiring Deathbringer 32mm
Aspiring Deathbringer with Goreaxe
and Skullhammer 40mm
Blood Throne 120 x 92mm
Blood Warriors 32mm
Bloodcrushers 90 x 52mm
Bloodletters 32mm
Bloodmaster, Herald of Khorne 32mm
Bloodreavers 32mm
Bloodsecrator 32mm
Bloodstoker 40mm
Bloodthirster of Insensate Rage 120 x 92mm
Bloodthirster of Unfettered Fury 120 x 92mm
Exalted Deathbringer with Bloodbite Axe 40mm
Exalted Deathbringer with Impaling Spear 40mm
Exalted Deathbringer with Ruinous Axe 40mm
Exalted Greater Daemon of Khorne 160mm
Flesh Hounds 60 x 35mm
Karanak 60 x 35mm
Khorgoraths 90 x 52mm
Korghos Khul 60mm
Lord of Khorne on Juggernaut 90 x 52mm
Mazarall the Butcher 100mm
Mighty Lord of Khorne 60mm
Mighty Skullcrushers 90 x 52mm
Scyla Anfingrimm 60mm
Skaarac the Bloodborn 160mm
Skarbrand 100mm
BLADES OF KHORNE
UNIT BASE SIZE
Skarr Bloodwrath 40mm
Skull Cannons 120 x 92mm
Skullgrinder 40mm
Skullmaster, Herald of Khorne 90 x 52mm
Skullreapers 40mm
Skulltaker 40mm
Slaughterbrute of Khorne 120 x 92mm
Slaughterpriest 40mm
Slaughterpriest with Hackblade and Wrath-hammer 40mm
Valkia the Bloody 32mm
Wrath of Khorne Bloodthirster 120 x 92mm
Wrathmongers 40mm
CHAOS GARGANTS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Chaos Gargant 90 x 52mm
CLANS ESHIN
UNIT BASE SIZE
Deathrunner 32mm
Gutter Runners 25mm
Night Runners 25mm
Skaven Assassin 32mm
Verminlord Deceiver 120 x 92mm
CLANS MOULDER
UNIT BASE SIZE
Brood Horror 120 x 92mm
Giant Rats 25mm
Hell Pit Abomination 120 x 92mm
Packmaster 25mm
Rat Ogors 50mm
Rat Swarms 50mm
Skaven Wolf Rats 75 x 42mm
CLANS PESTILENS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Plague Censer Bearers 32mm
Plague Furnace 120 x 92mm
Plague Monks 25mm
Plague Priest with Plague Censer 32mm
Plague Priest with Warpstone-tipped Staff 32mm
Plagueclaw 120 x 92mm
Verminlord Corruptor 120 x 92mm
CLANS SKRYRE
UNIT BASE SIZE
Arch-warlock 32mm
Doom-flayer Weapon Team 60 x 35mm
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar: Base Sizes 3
CLANS SKRYRE
UNIT BASE SIZE
Doomwheel 105 x 70mm
Poisoned Wind Mortar Weapon Team 60 x 35mm
Ratling Gun Weapon Team 60 x 35mm
Skryre Acolytes 25mm
Stormfiends 60mm
Warlock Engineer 32mm
Warp Lightning Cannon 120 x 92mm
Warp-grinder Weapon Team 60 x 35mm
Warpfire Thrower Weapon Team 60 x 35mm
Warplock Jezzails 60 x 35mm
CLANS VERMINUS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Clanrats 25mm
Skaven Warlord 32mm
Skaven Warlord on Brood Horror 120 x 92mm
Stormvermin 25mm
Verminlord Warbringer 120 x 92mm
DAEMONS OF CHAOS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Be’lakor, Chaos Daemon Prince 60mm
Daemon Prince 60mm
Furies 25mm
Soul Grinder 160mm
DISCIPLES OF TZEENTCH
UNIT BASE SIZE
Blue Horrors of Tzeentch 25mm
Brimstone Horrors of Tzeentch 25mm
Burning Chariots of Tzeentch 120 x 92mm
Curseling, Eye of Tzeentch 32mm
Exalted Flamers of Tzeentch 75 x 42mm
Exalted Greater Daemon of Tzeentch 130mm
Fatemaster 60mm
Flamers of Tzeentch 32mm
Gaunt Summoner (and Chaos Familiars) 40mm
Gaunt Summoner of Tzeentch 40mm
Gaunt Summoner’s Chaos Familiars 25mm
Herald of Tzeentch 32mm
Herald of Tzeentch on Burning Chariot 120 x 92mm
Herald of Tzeentch on Disc 60mm
Kairic Acolytes 32mm
Kairos Fateweaver 100mm
Lord of Change 100mm
Magister 32mm
Mutalith Vortex Beast of Tzeentch 120 x 92mm
Ogroid Thaumaturge 50mm
Pink Horrors of Tzeentch 32mm
Screamers of Tzeentch 32mm
The Blue Scribes 60mm
The Changeling 40mm
Tzaangor Enlightened 40mm
Tzaangor Shaman 40mm
DISCIPLES OF TZEENTCH
UNIT BASE SIZE
Tzaangor Skyfires 40mm
Tzaangors 32mm
EVERCHOSEN
UNIT BASE SIZE
Archaon 160mm
Gaunt Summoner of Tzeentch 40mm
Varanguard 75 x 42mm
LEGION OF AZGORH
UNIT BASE SIZE
Bull Centaur Renders 90 x 52mm
Bull Centaur Taur’ruk 90 x 52mm
Daemonsmith 25mm
Deathshrieker Rocket Launcher 120 x 92mm
Drazhoath the Ashen 120 x 92mm
Dreadquake Mortar 120 x 92mm
Infernal Guard Battle Standard Bearer 25mm
Infernal Guard Castellan 25mm
Infernal Guard Fireglaives 25mm
Infernal Guard Ironsworn 25mm
Iron Daemon War Engine 120 x 92mm
K’Daai Fireborn 50mm
Magma Cannon 120 x 92mm
Shar’tor the Executioner 105 x 70mm
Skullcracker War Engine 120 x 92mm
HOSTS OF SLAANESH
UNIT BASE SIZE
Chaos Lord of Slaanesh 32mm
Daemonettes of Slaanesh 25mm
Exalted Greater Daemon of Slaanesh 105 x 70mm
Exalted Seekers Chariots of Slaanesh 120 x 92mm
Fiends of Slaanesh 40mm
Hellflayers of Slaanesh 120 x 92mm
Hellstriders of Slaanesh 60 x 35mm
Herald of Slaanesh 25mm
Herald of Slaanesh on Exalted Seeker Chariot 120 x 92mm
Herald of Slaanesh on Seeker Chariot 120 x 92mm
Keeper of Secrets 60mm
Lord of Slaanesh on Daemonic Mount 60mm
Seeker Chariots of Slaanesh 120 x 92mm
Seekers of Slaanesh 60 x 35mm
The Masque of Slaanesh 25mm
MAGGOTKIN OF NURGLE
UNIT BASE SIZE
Beasts of Nurgle 60mm
Bloab Rotspawned 100mm
Epidemius, Tallyman of Nurgle 60mm
Exalted Greater Daemon of Nurgle 130mm
Feculent Gnarlmaw Use model
Festus the Leechlord 40mm
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar: Base Sizes 4
MAGGOTKIN OF NURGLE
UNIT BASE SIZE
Great Unclean One 130mm
Gutrot Spume 40mm
Harbinger of Decay 75 x 42mm
Horticulous Slimux 105 x 70mm
Lord of Afflictions 60mm
Lord of Blights 40mm
Lord of Plagues 40mm
Morbidex Twiceborn 100mm
Nurglings 40mm
Orghotts Daemonspew 100mm
Plague Drones 60mm
Plaguebearers 32mm
Poxbringer, Herald of Nurgle 32mm
Pusgoyle Blightlords 60mm
Putrid Blightkings 40mm
Rotigus 130mm
Sloppity Bilepiper, Herald of Nurgle 32mm
Sorcerer 32mm
Spoilpox Scrivener, Herald of Nurgle 40mm
The Glottkin 130mm
MASTERCLAN
UNIT BASE SIZE
Grey Seer 32mm
Lord Skreech Verminkin 120 x 92mm
Screaming Bell 120 x 92mm
Thanquol and Boneripper 105 x 70mm
Verminlord Warpseer 120 x 92mm
Warpgnaw Verminlord 105 x 70mm
MONSTERS OF CHAOS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Chaos Siege Gargant 120 x 92mm
Chaos War Mammoth 280 x 210mm
Curs’d Ettin 120 x 92mm
Gigantic Chaos Spawn 100mm
Harpies 32mm
Mutalith Vortex Beast 120 x 92mm
Preyton 60mm
Skin Wolves 60mm
Slaughterbrute 120 x 92mm
Warpfire Dragon 120 x 92mm
SLAVES TO DARKNESS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Chaos Chariots 120 x 92mm
Chaos Chosen 32mm
Chaos Gorebeast Chariots 120 x 92mm
Chaos Knights 75 x 42mm
Chaos Lord on Daemonic Mount 75 x 42mm
Chaos Lord on Manticore 120 x 92mm
Chaos Marauder Horsemen 60 x 35mm
Chaos Marauders 25mm
Chaos Sorcerer Lord 32mm
SLAVES TO DARKNESS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Chaos Sorcerer Lord on Chaos Steed 75 x 42mm
Chaos Sorcerer Lord on Manticore 120 x 92mm
Chaos Spawn 50mm
Chaos Warriors 32mm
Chaos Warshrine 120 x 92mm
Daemon Prince 60mm
Darkoath Chieftain 32mm
Darkoath Warqueen 32mm
Exalted Hero of Chaos 32mm
Lord of Chaos 32mm
Nightmaw 50mm
Sayl the Faithless 32mm
TAMURKHAN’S HORDE
UNIT BASE SIZE
Bile Troggoths 60mm
Daemon Pox Riders of Nurgle 60mm
Daemon Plague Toads of Nurgle 60mm
Kazyk the Befouled 90 x 52mm
Plague Ogors 60mm
Tamurkhan the Maggot Lord 280x210mm
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar: Base Sizes 5
BASE SIZES – DEATH
FLESH-EATER COURTS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Abhorrant Ghoul King 32mm
Abhorrant Ghoul King on Terrorgheist 130mm
Abhorrant Ghoul King on Zombie Dragon 130mm
Crypt Flayers 50mm
Crypt Ghast Courtier 32mm
Crypt Ghouls 25mm
Crypt Haunter Courtier 50mm
Crypt Horrors 50mm
Crypt Infernal Courtier 50mm
Varghulf Courtier 60mm
LEGIONS OF NAGASH
UNIT BASE SIZE
Arkhan the Black, Mortarch of Sacrament 120 x 92mm
Bat Swarms 50mm
Black Coach 170 x 105mm
Black Knights 60 x 35mm
Blood Knights 60 x 35mm
Bloodseeker Palanquin 120 x 92mm
Cairn Wraith 25mm
Corpse Cart with Balefire Brazier 105 x 70mm
Corpse Cart with Unholy Lodestone 105 x 70mm
Coven Throne 120 x 92mm
Dire Wolves 60 x 35mm
Fell Bats 40mm
Grave Guard 25mm
Hexwraiths 60 x 35mm
Mannfred, Mortarch of Night 120 x 92mm
Morghast Archai 60mm
Morghast Harbingers 60mm
Mortis Engine 120 x 92mm
Nagash, Supreme Lord of the Undead 130mm
Necromancer 32mm
Neferata, Mortarch of Blood 120 x 92mm
Prince Vhordrai 130mm
Skeleton Warriors 25mm
Spirit Hosts 50mm
Terrorgheist 130mm
Tomb Banshee 25mm
Vampire Lord 32mm
Vampire Lord on Nightmare Steed 60 x 35mm
Vampire Lord on Zombie Dragon 130mm
Vargheists 50mm
Wight King with Baleful Tomb Blade 32mm
Wight King with Black Axe 32mm
Zombie Dragon 130mm
Zombies 25mm
NIGHTHAUNT
UNIT BASE SIZE
Black Coach 170 x 105mm
Bladegheist Revenants 32mm
Cairn Wraith 25mm
Chainghasts 32mm
Chainrasp Horde 25mm
Dreadblade Harrow 60 x 35mm
Dreadscythe Harridans 32mm
Glaivewraith Stalkers 32mm
Grimghast Reapers 32mm
Guardian of Souls with Nightmare Lantern 32mm
Hexwraiths 60 x 35mm
Knight of Shrouds 32mm
Knight of Shrouds on Ethereal Steed 75 x 42mm
Kurdoss Valentian, the Craven King 60mm
Lady Olynder, Mortarch of Grief 60mm
Lord Executioner 40mm
Mourngul 60mm
Myrmourn Banshees 32mm
Reikenor the Grimhailer 75 x 42mm
Spirit Hosts 50mm
Spirit Torment 40mm
Tomb Banshee 25mm
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar: Base Sizes 6
BASE SIZES – DESTRUCTION
ALEGUZZLER GARGANTS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Aleguzzler Gargant 90 x 52mm
Bonegrinder Gargant 120 x 92mm
BEASTCLAW RAIDERS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Frost Sabres 60 x 35mm
Frostlord on Stonehorn 120 x 92mm
Frostlord on Thundertusk 120 x 92mm
Huskard on Stonehorn 120 x 92mm
Huskard on Thundertusk 120 x 92mm
Icebrow Hunter 50mm
Icefall Yhetees 50mm
Mournfang Pack 90 x 52mm
Stonehorn Beastriders 120 x 92mm
Thundertusk Beastriders 120 x 92mm
BONESPLITTERZ
UNIT BASE SIZE
Maniak Weirdnob 60 x 35mm
Savage Big Boss 32mm
Savage Big Stabbas 60 x 35mm
Savage Boarboy Maniaks 60 x 35mm
Savage Boarboys 60 x 35mm
Savage Orruk Arrowboys 32mm
Savage Orruk Morboys 32mm
Savage Orruks 32mm
Wardokk 32mm
Wurrgog Prophet 32mm
FIREBELLIES
UNIT BASE SIZE
Firebelly 50mm
FIMIR
UNIT BASE SIZE
Fimirach Noble 50mm
Fimir Warriors 50mm
GITMOB GROTS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Doom Diver Catapult 90 x 52mm
Doom Diver Catapult Crew with Rope 60 x 35mm
Doom Diver Catapult Crew with Hammer 25mm
Doom Diver 32mm
Grot Rock Lobber 105 x 70mm
Grot Rock Lobber Crew 25mm
Grot Rock Lobber Orruk Bully 32mm
Grot Shaman 25mm
Grot Shaman on Wolf 60 x 35mm
GITMOB GROTS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Grot Spear Chukka 50mm
Grot Spear Chukka Crew 25mm
Grot Wolf Chariots 105 x 70mm
Grot Wolf Riders 60 x 35mm
Grots 25mm
Nasty Skulkers 25mm
Snotling Pump Wagons 105 x 70mm
Snotlings 50mm
GREENSKINZ
UNIT BASE SIZE
Orruk Boar Chariots 120 x 92mm
Orruk Boarboys 60 x 35mm
Orruk Great Shaman 32mm
Orruk Warboss 32mm
Orruk Warboss with Banner 32mm
Orruk Warboss on War Boar 60 x 35mm
Orruk Warboss on Wyvern 100mm
Orruks 32mm
Rogue Idol 170 x 105mm
GUTBUSTERS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Butcher 40mm
Butcher with Cauldron 105 x 70mm
Gorgers 50mm
Grot Scraplauncher 120 x 92mm
Grots 25mm
Ironblaster 120 x 92mm
Ironguts 40mm
Leadbelchers 40mm
Ogors 40mm
Tyrant 50mm
IRONJAWZ
UNIT BASE SIZE
Ardboys 32mm
Brutes 40mm
Gordrakk, the Fist of Gork 160mm
Gore-gruntas 90 x 52mm
Megaboss 60mm
Megaboss on Maw-krusha 160mm
Warchanter 40mm
Weirdnob Shaman 40mm
MANEATERS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Maneaters 50mm
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar: Base Sizes 7
MONSTERS OF DESTRUCTION
UNIT BASE SIZE
Basilisk 120 x 92mm
Dread Maw 120 x 92mm
Incarnate Elemental of Beasts 120 x 92mm
Incarnate Elemental of Fire 120 x 92mm
Magma Dragon 160mm
Myrwyrm 120 x 92mm
MOONCLAN GROTS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Cave Squigs 25mm
Colossal Squig 120 x 92mm
Fungoid Cave-shaman 32mm
Grot Fanatics 25mm
Grot Shaman 25mm
Grot Squig Herders 25mm
Grot Squig Hoppers 25mm
Grot Warboss 25mm
Grot Warboss on Great Cave Squig 50mm
Mangler Squigs 60mm
Moonclan Grots 25mm
Squig Gobba 120 x 92mm
SPIDERFANG GROTS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Arachnarok Spider 160mm
Grot Big Boss on Gigantic Spider 60mm
Grot Spider Riders 60 x 35mm
TROGGOTHS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Fellwater Troggoths 50mm
Rockgut Troggoths 40mm
Sourbreath Troggoths 40mm
Troggoth Hag 120 x 92mm
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar: Base Sizes 8
BASE SIZES – ORDER
AELF
UNIT BASE SIZE
Mistweaver Saih 32mm
Tenebrael Shard 32mm
COLLEGIATE ARCANE
UNIT BASE SIZE
Battlemage 25mm
Battlemage on Griffon 120 x 92mm
Celestial Hurricanum 120 x 92mm
Luminark of Hysh 120 x 92mm
DARKLING COVENS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Black Guard 25mm
Bleakswords 25mm
Darkshards 25mm
Dreadspears 25mm
Executioners 25mm
Sorceress 25mm
Sorceress on Black Dragon 105 x 70mm
DAUGHTERS OF KHAINE
UNIT BASE SIZE
Avatar of Khaine 40mm
Blood Sisters 40mm
Blood Stalkers 40mm
Bloodwrack Medusae 40mm
Bloodwrack Shrine 120 x 92mm
Doomfire Warlocks 60 x 35mm
Hag Queen 25mm
Hag Queen on Cauldron of Blood 120 x 92mm
Khinerai Heartrenders 40mm
Khinerai Lifetakers 40mm
Morathi, High Oracle of Khaine 40mm
Morathi, the Shadow Queen 100mm
Sisters of Slaughter 25mm
Slaughter Queen 25mm
Slaughter Queen on Cauldron of Blood 120 x 92mm
Witch Aelves 25mm
DEVOTED OF SIGMAR
UNIT BASE SIZE
Excelsior Warpriest 32mm
Excelsior Warpriest’s Gryph-hound 25mm
Flagellants 25mm
War Altar of Sigmar 120 x 92mm
Warrior Priest 25mm
Witch Hunter 25mm
DISPOSSESSED
UNIT BASE SIZE
Dispossessed Warriors 25mm
Hammerers 25mm
Ironbreakers 25mm
Irondrakes 25mm
Longbeards 25mm
Quarrellers 25mm
Runelord 25mm
Thunderers 25mm
Unforged 25mm
Warden King 25mm
ELDRITCH COUNCIL
UNIT BASE SIZE
Archmage 25mm
Archmage on Steed 60 x 35mm
Archmage on Dragon 120 x 92mm
Drakeseer 120 x 92mm
Loremaster 25mm
Swordmasters 25mm
FREE PEOPLES
UNIT BASE SIZE
Demigryph Knights 75 x 42mm
Freeguild Archers 25mm
Freeguild Crossbowmen 25mm
Freeguild General 25mm
Freeguild General on Warhorse 60 x 35mm
Freeguild General on Griffon 120 x 92mm
Freeguild Greatswords 25mm
Freeguild Guard 25mm
Freeguild Handgunners 25mm
Freeguild Outriders 60 x 35mm
Freeguild Pistoliers 60 x 35mm
FYRESLAYERS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Auric Hearthguard 32mm
Auric Runefather 32mm
Auric Runefather on Magmadroth 120 x 92mm
Auric Runemaster 32mm
Auric Runesmiter 32mm
Auric Runesmiter on Magmadroth 120 x 92mm
Auric Runeson 32mm
Auric Runeson on Magmadroth 120 x 92mm
Battlesmith 32mm
Doomseeker 32mm
Grimwrath Berzerker 32mm
Hearthguard Berzerkers 32mm
Vulkite Berzerkers 32mm
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar: Base Sizes 9
IDONETH DEEPKIN
UNIT BASE SIZE
Akhelian Allopex 90 x 52mm
Akhelian Ishlaen Guard 60 x 35mm
Akhelian King 60mm
Akhelian Leviadon 120 x 92mm
Akhelian Morrsarr Guard 60 x 35mm
Eidolon of Mathlann, Aspect of the Sea 100mm
Eidolon of Mathlann, Aspect of the Storm 100mm
Gloomtide Shipwreck Use model
Isharann Soulrender 40mm
Isharann Soulscryer 32mm
Isharann Tidecaster 32mm
Lotann, Warden of the Soul Ledgers 40mm
Namarti Reavers 32mm
Namarti Thralls 32mm
Volturnos, High King of the Deep 60mm
IRONWELD ARSENAL
UNIT BASE SIZE
Cannon 90 x 52mm
Cannon Crew 25mm
Cogsmith 25mm
Gunmaster 25mm
Gyrobombers 50mm
Gyrocopters 50mm
Helblaster Volley Gun 90 x 52mm
Helblaster Volley Gun Crew 25mm
Helstorm Rocket Battery 90 x 52mm
Helstorm Rocket Battery Crew 25mm
Organ Gun 90 x 52mm
Organ Gun Crew 25mm
Steam Tank 120 x 92mm
KHARADRON OVERLORDS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Aether-Khemist 32mm
Aetheric Navigator 32mm
Arkanaut Admiral 32mm
Arkanaut Company 25mm
Arkanaut Frigate 120 x 92mm
Arkanaut Ironclad 170 x 105mm
Brokk Grungsson, Lord-Magnate of Barak-Nar 50mm
Endrinmaster 32mm
Endrinriggers 32mm
Grundstok Gunhauler 105 x 70mm
Grundstok Thunderers 32mm
Skywardens 32mm
LION RANGERS
UNIT BASE SIZE
White Lion Chariots 120 x 92mm
White Lions 25mm
MONSTERS OF ORDER
UNIT BASE SIZE
Carmine Dragon 100mm
ORDER DRACONIS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Dragon Noble 25mm
Dragon Noble on Steed 60 x 35mm
Dragonlord 120 x 92mm
Dragon Blades 60 x 35mm
ORDER SERPENTIS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Drakespawn Chariots 120 x 92mm
Drakespawn Knights 60 x 35mm
Dreadlord on Black Dragon 105 x 70mm
War Hydra 120 x 92mm
PHOENIX TEMPLE
UNIT BASE SIZE
Anointed 25mm
Flamespyre Phoenix 120 x 92mm
Frostheart Phoenix 120 x 92mm
Phoenix Guard 25mm
SCOURGE PRIVATEERS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Black Ark Corsairs 25mm
Black Ark Fleetmaster 25mm
Kharibdyss 120 x 92mm
Scourgerunner Chariots 120 x 92mm
SERAPHON
UNIT BASE SIZE
Bastiladon 120 x 92mm
Chameleon Skinks 25mm
Dread Saurian 280 x 210mm
Engine of the Gods 120 x 92mm
Kroxigor 50mm
Lord Kroak 50mm
Razordons 60 x 35mm
Ripperdactyl Riders 50mm
Salamanders 60 x 35mm
Saurus Astrolith Bearer 40mm
Saurus Eternity Warden 40mm
Saurus Guard 32mm
Saurus Knights 60 x 35mm
Saurus Oldblood 32mm
Saurus Oldblood on Carnosaur 120 x 92mm
Saurus Scar-Veteran on Carnosaur 120 x 92mm
Saurus Scar-Veteran on Cold One 60 x 35mm
Saurus Sunblood 32mm
Saurus Warriors 32mm
Skink Handlers 25mm
Skink Priest 25mm
Skink Starpriest 25mm
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar: Base Sizes 10
SERAPHON
UNIT BASE SIZE
Skink Starseer 50mm
Skinks 25mm
Slann Starmaster 50mm
Stegadon 120 x 92mm
Terradon Riders 50mm
Troglodon 120 x 92mm
SHADOWBLADES
UNIT BASE SIZE
Assassin 25mm
Dark Riders 60 x 35mm
STORMCAST ETERNALS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Aetherwings 32mm
Astreia Solbright 90 x 52mm
Aventis Firestrike, Magister of Hammerhal 100mm
Castigators 40mm
Celestant-Prime, Hammer of Sigmar 100mm
Celestar Ballista 60mm
Celestar Ballista Crew 40mm
Dracothian Guard Concussors 90 x 52mm
Dracothian Guard Desolators 90 x 52mm
Dracothian Guard Fulminators 90 x 52mm
Dracothian Guard Tempestors 90 x 52mm
Drakesworn Templar 170 x 105mm
Evocators 40mm
Evocators on Dracolines 90 x 52mm
Gavriel Sureheart 40mm
Gryph-hounds 40mm
Judicators 40mm
Knight-Azyros 50mm
Knight-Heraldor 40mm
Knight-Incantor 40mm
Knight-Questor 40mm
Knight-Venator 50mm
Knight-Vexillor 40mm
Knight-Zephyros 40mm
Liberators 40mm
Lord-Aquilor 90 x 52mm
Lord-Arcanum 40mm
Lord-Arcanum on Dracoline 90 x 52mm
Lord-Arcanum on Gryph-charger 90 x 52mm
Lord-Arcanum on Tauralon 100mm
Lord-Castellant 40mm
Lord-Celestant 40mm
Lord-Celestant on Dracoth 90 x 52mm
Lord-Celestant on Stardrake 170 x 105mm
Lord-Exorcist 40mm
Lord-Ordinator Vorrus Starstrike 40mm
Lord-Relictor 40mm
Lord-Veritant 40mm
Neave Blacktalon 40mm
Paladin Decimators 40mm
STORMCAST ETERNALS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Paladin Protectors 40mm
Paladin Retributors 40mm
Prosecutors 40mm
Raptor-Prime with Longstrike Crossbow 40mm
Sequitors 40mm
Steelheart’s Champions 40mm
The Farstriders 40mm
Vandus Hammerhand 90 x 52mm
Vanguard-Hunters 40mm
Vanguard-Palladors 75 x 42mm
Vanguard-Raptors 40mm
Vanguard-Raptors with Longstrike Crossbows 60 x 35mm
SWIFTHAWK AGENTS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Chariots 120 x 92mm
High Warden 105 x 70mm
Reavers 60 x 35mm
Shadow Warriors 25mm
Skycutters 120 x 92mm
Skywarden 120 x 92mm
Spireguard 25mm
SYLVANETH
UNIT BASE SIZE
Alarielle the Everqueen 160mm
Branchwraith 32mm
Branchwych 32mm
Drycha Hamadreth 105 x 70mm
Kurnoth Hunters 50mm
Spirit of Durthu 105 x 70mm
Spite-Revenants 32mm
Sylvaneth Dryads 32mm
Sylvaneth Wyldwood Use model
Tree-Revenants 32mm
Treelord 105 x 70mm
Treelord Ancient 105 x 70mm
WANDERERS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Eternal Guard 25mm
Glade Guard 25mm
Nomad Prince 32mm
Sisters of the Thorn 60 x 35mm
Sisters of the Watch 25mm
Spellweaver 25mm
Wayfinder 25mm
Waystrider 25mm
Waywatcher 25mm
Wild Riders 60 x 35mm
Wildwood Rangers 25mm
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com
Warhammer Age of Sigmar: Base Sizes 11
BASE SIZES – OTHERS
MALIGN SORCERY
UNIT BASE SIZE
Aethervoid Pendulum Use model
Balewind Vortex Use model
The Burning Head Use model
Chronomantic Cogs Use model
Emerald Lifeswarm Use model
Geminids of Uhl-Gysh Use model
Malevolent Maelstrom Use model
Prismatic Palisade Use model
Purple Sun of Shyish Use model
Quicksilver Swords Use model
Ravenak’s Gnashing Jaws Use model
Soulsnare Shackles Use model
Suffocating Gravetide Use model
Umbral Spellportal Use model
WARHAMMER UNDERWORLDS
UNIT BASE SIZE
Fjul-Grimnir 32mm
Garrek’s Reavers 32mm
Ironskull’s Boyz 32mm
Magore’s Fiends 32mm
Riptooth 50mm
Skritch Spiteclaw 32mm
Spiteclaw’s Swarm 25mm
Steelheart’s Champions 40mm
The Chosen Axes 32mm
The Farstriders 40mm
The Sepulchral Guard 25mm
Current to 22 March 2019 www.aosshorts.com